3  The Two Can n't Miss Ruins of Guatemala Adventure Guatemala is the heartland of the Maya civilization . You can n't turn around without seeing rich Maya heritage scattered throughout this magical country . Along with a buffet of multisport activities , uncovering this heritage is one of the central goals of Bikehike 's " elements of the Earth , " an award - winning Guatemalan adventure tour . Since Guatemala has such an influential Maya presence , it 's only fitting that we visit more than one ancient Maya archeological site . Here are the two big players : Uaxactun One of the can n't miss Maya treasures we experience is Uaxactun , an ancient ruin settled deep within the Peten Basin region of the Maya lowlands . Here we explore the archaeological site , famed for lodging the oldest complete Maya astronomy centre in the world . Visiting this fantastic relic pays homage to the understated scientific advances made by the Maya civilization . Tikal Contrasting Uaxactun is Tikal , also known as the " new York of the Maya world . " This site is larger and offers more ruins to view . The special aspect of Tikal is that travellers are still allowed to climb on and explore many of the ruins . Close by is a high - octane zip - line course , offering adventure seekers a high view of the jungle canopy .
3  A Royal Mile ( and a half ) I took the bus for the first time today , and it worked out quite well . I made it to the Royal Mile about 1 from the top . I did n't realize that and so I spent the afternoon walking all the way down and then back up the royal mile . I stopped at the Parliment building and got to listen to a bit of the Q&a they had going on . I also saw the Palace of Holyrood but did not go in . There was a children 's used bookstore which had various old children 's books . I found a Mandy annual ! ! Well actually I found 4 but I already had 3 of them , I also found a copy of the Mandy weekly there ! ! The Museum of Edinburgh was alright although I did n't spend much time there . The Children 's Museum was interesting if you like looking at toys and other household artifacts from yesteryear ( which I do ) . By the time I got to the Castle it was nearly ready to close . I did however get there in time to join the final tour which was quite good . I will have to make sure that next time I go I do n't buy anything before I get there because it is hard to carry Mandy books and take pictures at the same time ! ! ( pictures coming tomorrow ) This blog is to recount the whereabouts and fabulous adventures as I travel to far away lands . Well mostly it is so that I can remember where I went and what I saw . I have finally graduated from University and am now the proud owner of a Bcomm in Business Process Management . So I thought I would take this time to travel to Europe , and immerse myself into the culture overseas . . . . full info A military power during the 17th century , Sweden has not participated in any war in almost two centuries . An armed neutrality was preserved in both World Wars . Sweden 's long - successful economic formula of a capitalist system interlarded with substant. . . more info
3  Grab a piece of the action From zorbing to ziplining , there 's an outdoor activity to challenge any thrill - seeker , writes David Whitley . Sometimes a holiday is all about the beach or pool . But if it 's action you 're after , this corner of Asia will n't disappoint . Thailand is an adventure enthusiast 's playground . Beyond Bangkok and Phuket , and deep in the country 's north , there 's a great mix of emerging and he d places where fun can be found as you test yourself against the elements or your friends . Trekking , Chiang Rai The mountains in Thailand 's far north are at the foothills of the Himalayas , but elevations never get too extreme . Think hillsides covered in bamboo forests with beautiful lookouts above valleys and tea plantations that were once used for growing opium poppies . Twoor three - day hikes , staying in hill - tribe villages , are available for the most enthusiastic . But those who just want a taste of the forest can undertake two - hour ambles packaged with longboat and elephant rides as part of a day trip from Chiang Rai . Oneday trekking adventures provide a happy ( if extremely sweaty ) medium . Advertisement Eagle Adventure Tour is one of the region 's more reliable and likeable outfits . Expect to pay 3000 baht ( $ 93.60 ) for a full day if on your own or 1600 baht each if there are two or more of you . See thaieagletour.com . Sea kayaking , Krabi The gorgeous Andaman coastline around Krabi is ripe for exploring by boat . With a bit of arm power , it 's possible to sneak into the mangrove channels that motor boats can n't risk entering , and glide next to the limestone karsts the region is famous for . Sea Kayak Krabi runs day - long tours including an itinerary through the Krabi Klong Talen mangroves where monkeys are known to jump from trees and limestone canyons . A Koh Hong kayaking trip concentrates on the islands and builds in some snorkelling time for anyone wanting to ogle the abundant marine life . Krabi 's limestone coastline keeps climbers happy , too . The Railay region has more than 400 bolted climbing routes , with options suitable for beginners and family groups as well as the tougher , more technical climbs . The Hot Rock company will kit out climbers and show you the ropes for half - day introductory classes through to three - day sport courses . Daredevils can try what is euphemistically called " deep water solo " essentially climbing ledges that overhang the sea . Make a mistake and you fall however , the water is deep enough to ensure there 's usually no harm done to anything more than your pride . The Gulf Islands , Ko Tao in particular , offer some of the best diving in Asia . Trips can be arranged from Ko Samui or Ko Pha Ngan , but anyone serious about underwater activity is best off getting the ferry to Ko Tao to be closer to the life aquatic . Among the best spots are Chumphon Pinnacle , home to tuna and grey reef sharks , and the coral - decorated Japanese Gardens . I ve shops are plentiful and many offer I ve - to - dive courses as well as day trips . Gibbons might be far more graceful than any human wearing a harness , but the Flight of the Gibbon rainforest ziplining course is fun and children aged I ve or older can participate . Built in a forest south - east of Bangkok , the Chonburi course allows visitors to fly from platform to platform over some terrifying drops . It 's worth spending the day here ( transfers from Bangkok are available ) so you can get the most out of the three kilometres of line . The company runs ziplining at Chiang Mai , too . Tree Top Asia 's Flight of the Gibbon is from 3299 baht a person . See treetopasia.com . Zorbing , Phuket Zorbing is arguably the silliest thing to be exported from New Zealand . It involves no skill , just the ability to flounder around inside a giant plastic ball as it lumbers down a hill . The twist is that the ball is partially filled with water , meaning that the guinea pig inside he s around too . As you roll down a hill , there 's a high chance of being he d into all manner of positions upside down , backwards or flat on your face . Rollerball , near Phuket 's Patong Beach , has a 190 - metre zorbing track . One run costs 950 baht a person . See www.rollerball.co . Quad biking , Phang - nga Province Explore off - road trails in the Thai countryside on a 320cc quad bike and prepare to get muddy . Atv Phuket offers a three - hour jaunt around Phang - nga aboard a 320cc bike . You ride along riverbanks , up hill tracks and past villages . Training beforehand is provided . Atv Phuket has bike hire from 4200 baht a person , not including the laundry bill . See atvphuket.com . Rafting , Pai , Chiang Mai Province Two types of rafting are offered at Pai : bamboo rafting with a guide is sedate ; white - water rafting at the height of the August - september rainy season means taking on some I ve - five rapids . Happily , at other times of the year , especially between February and May , water levels tend to be low so the white - water rafting is gentler . Thai Airways has a fare to Bangkok from Sydney and Melbourne ( about 9hrs ) for about $ 1030 low - season return including tax ; see thaiairways.com . Staying there The Crowne Plaza Lumpini Park is agreeably stylish , handily located next to the Silom Station and Bangkok 's Lumphini Park . King rooms cost from 3600 baht [ $ 112.60 ] a night . see ichotelsgroup.com
3  Chicago City With Great Atractions And More Adventure Places Chicago city is the great vacations place . This is city with great attractions and more fantastic places . This is Home of blues and truth of jazz . In city there are many of instance attractions places and lots of things are there to visit . In night the city look so I ve and no one can match of that city . The skyscrapers are the another unique attractions in the city Vacations With Great Fun And More Entertainment Chicago city is the great vacations place . This is city with great attractions and more fantastic places . This is Home of blues and truth of jazz . In city there are many of instance attractions places and lots of things are there to visit . In night the city look so I ve and no one can match of that city . The skyscrapers are the another unique attractions in the city This is the city where spend vacations with great fun and adventure activities . Two year ago I got the chance to visit this city . And I really enjoyed my vacations days with great entertainment . My travel agent makes all the arrangement of the air ticket and my home city from internet I search the cheap hotels in chicago and I am not believed that there are various hotels site that provide the cheap hotels in facilities and contains many more amenities of lodging . And most things were places are near to attraction . Then on travel day I pick - up luggage and move to Chicago . Plane land at the airport O 'hare International Airport such so big place and good transport facilities are there . From air port I collect my luggage and move towards my hotel . In way many of attractions and other places are there . I got excited to saw the hotel , it was so nice hotel . Great architecture and contains good interior inside . Service was time to time and there are many luxury amenities were there . Then I was visited to different locations in the city . And I got more entertainment of the places . Lake Michigan was the freshwater lake and here great fu of swimming and there other fantastic fun activities were like fishing , kayaking I was play . In this place people crowed no much and so I feel great peace . Second day shore this also the other there were many more attractions and many of activities are I have enjoyed like swimming , boating . People are took the entertainment of other activities were like sun bathing , swimming , biking , walking and many more . And attractions the parks also so contain the uniqueness . Some of were Lincoln Park , Lakeview and roger park . In Midway Park great entertainment of skating in winter and people likes to visit like that place . In Jackson Park the golf sport attractions in main there . And I enjoyed watching the golf sport . In city the great building architecture was there and many of skyscrapers make more attention to the visitors . Blues and Truth of Jazz that the famous in the city . Great celebration of these festivals with great enthusiasm and make more entertainment . Night life of the city is such of unique and more entertaining . The night the city look so entertaining and also have the magnetized youth attraction places . Beside those restaurants and other delicious food places that provides the unforgotten . After one week I come back to my city and these seven days I really enjoyed my vacations with great entertainment . This was my vacations days in the modern and beautiful city chicago .
3  Family Travel : Around - the - world family pauses to reflect at half - way point he d on Thursday March 15 , 2012 Send Email Form Your Name * : * The following field is required Recipient Email(s ) * : Separate multiple emails with a semicolon ( ; ) Sender 's Email * : Your Message * : Thought you would be interested in this article . Please key in * : Send Your email has been sent . Close Sorry , we are having technical issues please try again later during the day . Close Ethan and Cameron take in m Heather Greenwood Davis the Toronto Star Ethan , 9 and Cameron , 7 , take in the Seuss - like mountains of Yangshuo , China . The duo and their parents have visited almost 20 countries over the last six months and have another six to go . Cameron and his dad rest in Heather Greenwood Davis the Toronto Star Cameron , 7 , and his Dad Ish take a rest in the Capetown , Airport while waiting for the next leg of their Around the World trip to begin . The duo , along with Ethan,9 and mom Heather Greenwood Davis have just crossed the 6 month mark on their around the world trip and , despite a few uncomfortable situations , are n't in any hurry to get home . Heather Davis and family ha Heather Greenwood Davis the Toronto Star More than six months of traveling together 24 has meant that all four members of the author 's family have found that there is plenty to keep everyone happy on the road . The statement , made by my husband Ish as we sit on a Zanzibar beach watching our boys play a game of soccer with the locals , is met by my nod and a sigh . " this is it , " he continues , with the melodrama the moment requires . " less than six months to go . " To an outsider the notion that another six months of travelling before we return to our Toronto home would qualify as " winding down " might seem preposterous , but for our family of four - me , Ish and our sons Ethan , 9 , and Cameron , 7 - who have already been on the road since last June , the milestone feels like we 're rolling downhill at a frantic pace . Sure , we 've still got time in India , Dubai , Egypt , Europe and Eastern Canada to look forward to , but it still feels like things are going way too fast . A dream born before the kids were even in the picture is now half over . The numbers might impress some - more than 200 days of continuous travel , almost 20 countries , more than 50 flight segments - but this trip has never been about the numbers for us . We set out to have experiences together as a family that we could talk about for years to come and we found them Gaining a paparazzi in China following just by being black Spending a few days travelling the Mekong Delta from Vietnam to Cambodia and encountering our first 1 - star hotel along the way Zip lining in a Thai rainstorm , Trekking up the side of a muddy volcano , catching a family of humpback whales at play in the Galapagos island Making friends in Mombasa and Mumbai and Sydney and Siem Reap Growing together on a culinary journey that never ends and gets tastier all the time Safety has n't been an issue . It would have been perhaps if we had been on the road as a couple , delving deeper into back alleys or seeking out excitement by way of dangerous encounters , but we are n't . We 're parents and travelling with our kids has meant choosing the " safer " route when we can but also accepting that whether danger finds you is often completely out of your control . What about the kids ' education ? Their education on this trip never worried us . At 9 and 7 they now have a context for everything from World Peace to I ve Dance . At every stop along the way we 've learned about history and culture and religion . We have a better sense of what people are fighting about , why and how much of it is politically driven . We 're learning that the world is a friendly place filled with curious people and amazing structures . And we 're convinced that a soccer ball and a pack of Oreos are a universal sign of childhood . My boys will never have a better social studies experience than this trip . A year is a long time ! Are n't you anxious to come home ? Yes ! We are anxious but not because we are longing for home or hoping to cut things short . This trip has shown us how routine and rote our lives at home had become . A life dictated by obligations and timetables and he d meals . We now know what we do n't want and as the trip begins to wind down we 're thinking hard about how to change our home life to reflect that . In less than six months we 'll have to sort it all out but for now we 're trying not to think about that . There are still about a dozen countries waiting for us to explore and two little boys who need to be convinced it 's time to say goodbye to new friends and wash up for supper . Heather Greenwood Davis is a travel columnist and freelance writer . You can find posts about the trip and the current itinerary at www.globetrottingmama.com Tips for planning long - term travel 1 . Have a general route planned but leave room for change : We had a country route chosen before we left home but fine tuned the cities as we travelled so that we could leave room to add or move things as we wanted . Opting to purchase tickets in stages as opposed to all of them up front helped . 2 . Tap into community : social media was meant for long - term travellers . Twitter pals have suggested places to stay , Facebook friends have introduced us to family in foreign lands . Seek out the groups that speak to the kind of travel you have in mind . 3 . Stop being a tourist : Sure you 've got to hit the must - sees some of the time but travelling long term is different than a week - long vacation ; you need downtime . Build it into your schedule and make it non - negotiable . You 'll have more energy for the temples and palaces if you do .
3  The New York Times asked Stew to be a guest blogger during his visit to Africa , his first time on the continent . To begin , Stew riffs on the food , breezes and sounds of Kenya . 1 . " pathetic Eurocentric Negro ! " Kenyatta 's airstrip grumbles under me , " it 's taken you a month shy of 50 years to finally show up ? You are on the late - freight , brother . " Now that 's what I call Cpt ! 2 . As we exit the airport , the Nairobi breeze offers itself like a light blanket of delicate material , delivering a foreign , vaguely optimistic caress . 3 . The Sundance Institute has invited me to be an adviser at their East Africa Theater Lab being held on the island of Manda off the coast of Kenya . I 'll be joined ( and severely intimidated ) by real theater artists like Lynn Nottage and Liesl Tommy from New York , as well as Indhu Rubasingham from London and Hope Azeda from Rwanda . This group of advisers , along with our stars , a number of amazing East African playwrights , along with some really fine actors , will make up an amazing group of artists that I 'm excited to hang with for the next two weeks . I have an extra suitcase filled with the Cliff notes to every single play ever written in order to keep up with them . 4 . " so , you 've been ' meaning to visit ' Africa for at least three decades now ? " asked the bustling airport parking lot , skeptically . " were you perhaps stuck in European canonical traffic ? Would a Ghanain Godard , a Rwandan Rivette or a Togolese Truffaut have seduced you down here sooner ? " 5 . My daughter Bibi and I are to stay one night in Naroibi before we head to Manda but we are freaking cuz we cannot spend my first night in Africa eating hotel " sandwiches " designed for tourist gringos , as not a single Kenyan dish can be found on the menu . Nor can we spend my first night in Africa listening to the Afro - lounge pianist whose mango - sweet renditions keep asking the musical question : " when does the reality of an African cat playing stuff this square transcend ironic - kitsch appreciation and morph into the hold music for the Nairobi Suicide Hot - line ? " Answer : immediately . 6 . The workshop I 'm giving on Manda will probably consist of a song by song analysis of the Rolling Stones 1966 release " between the Buttons " which I 'll compare and contrast with " king Lear , " even though I 've never read " king Lear " and I 'm almost certain absolutely no connection between the two works actually exists . But Sundance can handle this sort of thing . 7 . The concierge is shocked we want African food . I tell I m we eat African food on 26th between 6th and 7th Avenue back in Manhattan so why not in Nairobi . This shocks I m even more . We are told that Nairobi is a dangerous place at night . Dangerous ? I ask I m has he ever seen Youtube footage of the Park Slope riots when they 've run out of chai lattes ? He says " i do n't believe you , not even Nairobi dares run out of chai lattes , " and strongly advises us not to traipse about at night because Nairobi ( as it has been called ) is quite capable of living up to it 's nickname . But he s and lounge piano in the Motherland are far more threatening to we big city Negroes on Nairobian nightlife safari than street crime . 9 . We eventually break the concierge down and he tells us where he 'd go if he were two black Americans hellbent on an authentic Nairobian dining experience . As he writes out the address he light - heartedly offers with a winning smile and lovely Afro - brit lilt " do n't get mugged or I 'll lose my job . " Philippa Ndisi - herrmann Manda Island , off the coast of Kenya . 10 . The machine gun held by the soldier guarding the road that led to the gate that led to our hotel perked up " besides , your people are probably from West Africa so go bug the Ghanaians with your " i can n't describe it but I just feel so at home here " musings . Nairobi is way too busy to take notice of you and your " profound " journal entries which are likely to wind up as a dubious African influenced concept album . " if I were you , I 'd leave that stuff to the white boys , as they approach it with just the right amount of irony and charming ineptitude . " 11 . As they did in 2004 on that mountain in Utah - when they gave me a room with a view and we workshopped " passing Strange " for the first time - sundance is changing my life again . It just makes crazy sense that my first time in Africa would be because of them . This is going to be fantastic , except that I still do n't know anything about theater , so what can I say to these playwrights ? 12 . Excitement ! We 're headed out into the Nairobi night . As our cabby revs his engine he sings to his other cabbie friends " obama ! " and they laugh " obama ! " right back . No sweat , we 're thrilled to be called " obama ! " It still beats being called " bush ! " any day . Stew starred in , wrote the book and lyrics and , with Heidi Rodewald , composed the music for the musical " passing Strange , " which ran on Broadway in 2008 . Strange moments from the red carpet include Nick Nolte talking about crows and Richard Dreyfuss discussing the preamble to the Constitution . Then there was Zach Galifianakis . About Artsbeat Artsbeat is a Web site devoted to culture news and reviews , and to the work and interests of the reporters and critics of The Times 's culture department and the Book Review . Come here for breaking stories about the arts , coverage of I ve events , interviews with leading cultural figures , critical reviews , multimedia extravaganzas and much more .
3  A Nomad Knows for those of you who have done it , this will sound familiar . For those of you who have n't , learn fast ! A Girl 's Guide to the Middle East ' i 'm travelling overland between Istanbul and Cairo , ' I 'd say vaguely . If people did n't realise which countries came in between those two cities that was n't my problem , right ? But now that I 've been and made it safely home , people are curious about the summer I spent travelling , often alone and a woman to boot , along the so - called axis of evil . Their first question is usually - was it safe ? What is there to see except sand and camels ? Did I travel with a male companion ? No ? ! Was I crazy ? And did I have to cover my hair ? As I discovered , with careful research , planning and a bit of gumption , even women on their own can travel safely and successfully through the region , home to some of the most fascinating and friendly countries on earth - not to mention some of the cheapest . While the following tips focus on women travelling to the Middle East they also make a helpful starting point for anyone planning a trip to the region . So what is there to see ? Atmospheric ruins and souqs , exquisitely tiled mosques , breathtaking desert canyons , cedar forest , hidden cities and hilltop monasteries - the Middle East is as diverse as it is vast . Take the long way and follow the King 's Highway through Jordan , I ve the Red Sea in laid - back Dahab in Egypt or get lost in the Christian quarter of the Syrian city of Damascus . With short travel distances between sights , you can see a surprising amount in a short period of time , even travelling overland . To cover or not to cover ? Unless you 're travelling to a part of the Middle East that requires you to do so by law ( such as Iran , Yemen and Saudi Arabia ) , there is no need to cover your hair . In fact , if you 're not a I m and choose to wear a hijab , many locals will find it confusing . You should , however , dress respectfully . Look around and see what local women are wearing . You 'll I ve much less attention if you 're wearing long pants and a t - shirt that covers your shoulders and midriff . A scarf , always a funky accessory anyway , comes in handy on the odd occasion you visit a mosque that requires your hair to be tucked out of sight before you enter . There are some places where you can get away with wearing less - any of the Dead Sea he s and major tourist sites like Petra and the pyramids . But just because you can does n't mean you should . Dressing modestly shows that you respect local customs and culture . Plus , it means you do n't need to worry about shaving your legs ! A little shukran goes a long way Arabic is the primary language of much of the region and although English is usually pretty widely spoken particularly in countries like Lebanon and Jordan , as in any other part of the world locals appreciate any effort you make to speak their language . I 'll never forget the smile that broke out on an old man 's face in a pharmacy in Damascus when I greeted I m with salam alaykum ( literally , peace be upon you ) and thanked I m by saying shukran . Because it 's so common for Westerners to visit countries like Syria to learn Arabic , people might even think you 're more fluent than you are . Share information wisely In many parts of the world , the Middle East included , it 's not considered I ve to question a stranger about their marital status , income and family situation . It 's nothing sinister , just genuine curiosity . And people ( especially taxi drivers ! ) are particularly curious about women travelling without a husband , brother or father accompanying them . You will definitely be asked where your husband is and you can also expect to be asked whether you 're travelling in a group . It 's up to you whether you answer these questions truthfully . It can be a great segue into asking about the questioner 's life , but if you feel uncomfortable it 's okay to fib a little . Whenever taxi drivers asked if I was married I always said yes . And if I was asked where the rest of my group was I 'd say vaguely ' at the hotel '. Which hotel ? I can never remember the name of it . Use common sense and when it comes to how much you reveal to a stranger , trust your gut instinct . Deciding where to stay In many countries in the Middle East , it 's rare to see women working outside the home or in the service industry . This means hostels , guesthouses and hotels are often staffed entirely by men . This can be disconcerting at first and you might even go days without speaking to another woman . Often guidebooks will mention specifically whether a hotel is or is n't suitable for solo female travellers and if you 're uncertain , do a quick search online for reviews from others who have been to your destination recently . Be prepared...pharmaceutically Okay . The Middle East is hot . You get sweaty . When you 're travelling , it 's difficult to wash your he s as often as you should . You 'll frequently take long bus rides without toilet stops . If you 've ever , at some point in your life , had some kind of delicate infection that could possibly recur , bring some medication for it . Trust me . It 'll be much easier than trying to explain what exactly you think might be wrong to a local ( male ) pharmacist who does n't speak a lick of English and is likely to call up I ve friends to come and assist with interpretation . Knowledge is power Let us not kid ourselves . The bad press the Middle East receives is n't always undeserved . It 's a volatile region and the situation changes daily . While a country or city may be safe to visit one month it may not be the next . Keep up to date with your government 's travel advisories , read online forums for trip reports from recent travellers and follow the news carefully . Once you 're in the region , ask locals for advice . Do n't forget to smile ! Constantly having your guard up means it can be difficult to have genuine interactions with the local population , particularly with men . But trust your instincts - most people are actually not out to get you , and chatting with people about their lives is one of the most fun aspects of travelling . If feel like it 's okay to have tea with someone or visit their home , it probably is ! About the Author Megan Czisz is a scribbler of notes , a taker of photographs , a lover of food and a beginner at yoga , she left her job and Australia in May 2010 to travel around the world . Her blog , On My Way Rtw , chronicles her trip as she makes her way around the world .
3  qualia Chilling out in the Coral Sea. . . Blame it all on Captain Cook for running aground in 1770 , but ever since then the 2900 tropical islands , reefs , and cays that make up the Great Barrier Reef have fascinated the world . Stretching from Papua New Guinea to Queensland in north - eastern Australia , the reef supports a huge diversity of life , including many vulnerable and endangered species , and provides us with some of the best yachting , snorkeling , and scuba - diving in the world . The islands also offer an ideal place to hide away in luxury , close to the mainland , but far enough away not to care . All that 's left to decide is where to flop out , and having visited both Lizard Island ( the most northerly and isolated resort ) and Bederra ( closer in and currently closed for renovations ) , we have to say that qualia in the Whitsundays is our first choice . Getting here is easy , and after arriving at Hamilton Island Airport we were greeted as Vip 's, and driven to the resort at the island 's northern - most point . qualia was the dream of Bob Oatley , one of Australia 's wealthiest entrepreneurs , winemakers and sailing enthusiasts . Having purchased the island back in 2003 , his goal was turn it into something special , and he has . First thing he did was build a stunning yacht club , and an 18 - hole golf course on Dent Island island across the bay . Then all that was missing was somewhere exclusive , sophisticated and of course I ve to stay . Bob took care of that with qualia , and this contemporary sandstone , glass and timber retreat has become the place to go to escape from day to day life , and enjoy relaxed Aussie service at the highest possible level . Accommodation at qualia is stylish and luxurious as you would expect , and there are only sixty very private one - bedroom suites to choose from . Our favorites are any of the Windward Pavilions , all of which face northeast with uninterrupted ocean views , private plunge pools , and plenty of space to hang . If you want even more privacy , then reserve the Beach House . It 's got everything you need , so you never have to be seen , unless of course you want to be.. . ! When you 're not chilling out at your pavilion , the Spa is stunning and you should absolutely book your treatments on - line before arrival . Golf on Dent Island is only a helicopter ride away , and why not charter Atomic , the resort 's 45ft cruiser and explore the surrounding islands . Dining is under the expert guidance of Chef Alistair Waddell , and as a fellow Scot , and someone who ate at the restaurants he started out at in Glasgow , I can tell you that his cooking is good . If you 've never tried black pudding , then you need to try it here . Gbb Says : qualia is the place to be when you want to hide away with your partner , your friends or even by yourself . Just do n't bring the kids , they 're not welcome . Getting here is easy , and you 're only one flight away from Sydney , Melbourne , Brisbane , and cairns . what are you waiting for. . ?
3  Search India! ! ! After Australia Rich and I headed to India for a month of backpacking . Thought it would be good to do something totally different to snowboarding for a change . Here is what we got up to.. . . We arrived in the city of Chennai , which is a pretty bad city even by indian standards . We had to walk to the train station the first day to book our train tickets , and it was honestly the most terrifying experience of my life ! ! Going from the the peaceful mountains straight into the centre of an indian city was the biggest culture shock ever . I think unless you have gone to India its hard to describe what its like , but it is Intense , cars , cows , rickshaws , bikes , no rules on the road , ( people walk on the road like cars as the pavement is for the homeless ) horns , heat , poverty , people grabbing at you , staring , a million men , rubbish Everywhere , dirt , dust and just soooo many people . No westerners At All ! Thailand is peaceful in comparison ! ! I nearly broke Rich 's hand on the walk as I was squeezing it so tight ( even tho you 're not actually supposed to show any public affection! ) . But this is what I had wanted , I wanted to have a totally different experience ! And we def got that ! We made it ! back from the train station in one peice , and and the next day we went on our first sleeper train , 16 hours over to Kerela . Sleeper trains are an experience in themselves ! ! We arrived in Allepey , Kerela and booked ourselves onto a houseboat......your very own boat with a driver , cook and host . It cruises round the backwaters of Kerela visiting all the little villages . And in contrast to the cities , is soooooo peaceful . Think we had about 5 naps and just ate loads of curry and felt like kings ! Next stop , Varkala , Kerela . Beautiful beach with amazing views . Although not much tanning All the females have to cover up as much as poss because of the Indian culture , so just ended up sunbathing in all my clothes ! Freaky tan lines ! We were pretty much the only westerners on the beach . Indians were fascinated by Rich , they had never seen anyone so tall and white!! ! ! We headed up to Goa , just as it was more touristy and would be able to just get some relaxing beach time in . Ha we ended up staying there for 10 days , which kind of feel guilty about , but think we needed it ! Few incidents with the cows on the beach trying to steal my pineapple , and a frog attacking me from inside the toilet , but it was a lush break all the same Then we headed up to Jaipur Rajistan.....30 hour train ! ! Only had one day so just walked around the Pink City and the bazaars for the day . Still lots of cows , but camels , monkeys and donkeys now too . Felt like we were adjusting more used to the hectic Indian culture Then that eve we headed over to Agra to get ready to see the Taj Mahal the next day , you 've kind of got to do it when you go to India ! We had breakfast looking over at the Taj , and then we went to see it close up . Was pretty nice ! The spent the arvo drinking tea and watching the monkeys jump from roof top to roof top Then we headed to Kolkata , another 30 hour train . Again , there was a lot of poverty here , seeing the slums and how people I ve was fascinating but shocking . All the little children with no shoes or he s playing in the litter : ( From here we decided to do a 3 day boat trip into the Sunderbans Tiger Reserve . This was one of the best experiences I had I think . We walked through all the villages , none of them have electricity or anything at all , but they seemed to be the happiest people ever . The surroundings were beautiful , do n't think the pics do it justice . Unfortunately we did n't spot any tigers , but knowing that we were sleeping in an area that there were tigers and crocs was pretty cool , and maybe a little scary ! Then back to Kolkata and then back to the Uk . I loved my Indian adventure , it was pretty hardcore but fascinating . There were a lot of good and bad experiences and we certainly have some stories to tell ! ! 1 month just was n't long enough to do everything though , would love to go back and do the Himalayas in the north one day.........pretty off curries now though! ! ! Its actually so nice to come home , so quiet and the Uk is so clean and everyone is so polite! ! ! But Rich and I have picked up some kind of Indian lurgy , so feeling pretty rubbish now , But def looking forward to getting stuck back into the snowboarding asap : )
3  Croatia Tour Highlights - professionals in the City Last month we arranged a 7 night tour of Croatia for a group of 12 members of the networking organisation , Professionals in the City , pictured right , with our Croatia I ve and destination expert , Marija in the centre . On their tour they visited the Adriatic coastal hotspots of Dubrovnik , Hvar and Split . We arranged all their accommodation , transport and transfers as walking tours of Dubrovnik and Split and a day trip by private boat to the Pakleni Islands near Hvar . Below you can watch several members of the group share their favourite moments of their vacation . About Ana Ana Bacic has written 19 posts on this blog . Ana has managed the Balkan destinations offered by Jayway Travel for over four years . Her passion for culture and tradition is are nt in her participation as member of a nationally recognized acapella group .
3  An Overview of visits to some of the Okanagan Area Ecological Reserves , October , 2012 A trip through some of the Ecological Reserves of the Okanagan in the fall of 2012 . It is not often that members of the Board of Friends of Ecological Reserves get the opportunity to meet with reserve wardens , hear their concerns , and get to see the Ecological Reserves looked after by those wardens . In the second week of October , I was fortunate to be able to take the time off and have the opportunity to do so in the Okanagan region from Osoyoos to Vernon . I have made image galleries for all of the reserves visited , all can be accessed from the " photos " link on the individual reserve index pages . Leaving from Victoria on October 7 , I picked up a friend in Vancouver , Niran Lella , who likes photographing interesting scenes in natural places . We had intended to make our first stop at Whipsaw Creek Ecological Reserve south of Princeton that afternoon , but by the time we found the Whipsaw Creek forest road and talked to a group of off - roaders who had just come down a very dusty and rugged logging road after a weekend of camping in the area , we decided that we would probably not make it in before darkness . Added to that was the uncertainty posed by not having a reserve warden to accompany us as there has been no warden appointed for that reserve . Rabbit brush ( ericameria nauseosa ) The next day we stopped at Field 's Lease Er and Hayne 's Lease Er just North of Osoyoos . To me , as a biologist living in Victoria on the Coast , this was an introduction to completely new types of ecosystems . The dry desert - like environment provided a new bewildering array of species . Field 's lease is probably the most extreme as the sage brush , antelope brush and rabbit brush were quite dominating . Field 's lease is the smallest reserve we encountered , but it is essential as it preserves , among the vineyards , a very rare form of ecosystem for Canada . The warden for both these reserves , Robert Calder was not available as he was away , but access was fairly obvious . Field 's lease is obviously vulnerable as there is land to the West which has a build up of dry materials and the reserve itself is full of years of buildup of dry vegetation which makes one wonder if some of the unique vegetation could I ve a wildfire in the area . The other obvious problem which must limit the use by wildlife was the surround - sound reverberations of the canons used to scare predator from the vineyards . View to the north - east of the reserve.the reserve also goes up Throne Mountain or Inkaneen . Hayne 's lease had similar desert - like vegetation on the upper bench land level , but it is bisected by a road and in the lower portion , a wetland composed of a series of Oxbow lakes from the Okanagan River flood plane , the ecosystem which is also part of an International Bird Area . A group of canvasback ducks , a great blue heron , and other waterbirds were seen in the distance . The third ecosystem in the reserve is the steep western slope of Inkaneen or Throne mountain on the east side of the reserve . We did encounter one example of research , on the upper sandy benchland . A temperature recorder which we uprighted , having fallen over some time ago . We have no record so far of who had installed the recorder and not retrieved it . I was surprised to see the snowy buckwheat , a new species to me , in full bloom in this reserve . A fire swept through the upper part of this reserve some years ago . There was still blackened he s of Antelope brush , with only a few he s showing some level of regrowth . A large vineyard abuts the reserve on the south end . This is clearly shown in the panoramas . Here again , the sound from the bird - scaring canons was dominant . Laurie Rockwell in his Ecological Reserve . On October 9 , we met up with Laurie Rockwell in Summerland and drove up above the golf course to the edge of the Trout Creek Ecological Reserve . I was especially interested to meet Laurie as he has for many years been a regular contributor of his warden reports to the Friends of Ecological reserves website . Laurie provided an excellent overview of the reserve as we went on a long hike through it encountering different vegetation of the open grassland and Ponderosa Pine Forest . Laurie emphasized the importance of only small groups being allowed to visit these I ve ecologic reserves . On the southern boundary of the reserve , and wrapping around the west side lies the cliffs leading down to Trout Creek itself . We could hear it but not see it from our high viewpoint at the top of the cliff in the reserve . . This natural boundary provides excellent security for the reserve on two sides . Next Laurie was up to checking the fence line on the steep North side . This fence is important for delineating the boundary to humans and to keep any stray cattle out . He had reported some areas where it was down and the local Parks office had been diligent in sending out Park employee Sarah Bunga , Park Warden to repair it . In the afternoon it was back to Penticton to meet up with Kathryn Mccourt for a trip out to Mahoney Lake Ecological Reserve . I had noticed from other photographers images I had posted previously on the website , that October - november seemed to be good months in which to witness the bloom of purple sulphur bacteria in this meromictic ( non - mixing ) lake which is the best example in North America . We were certainly not disappointed . Kathryn mentioned that in September the colour had not developed yet , and she sent pictures to show the contrast . The extremely dry year had led to a record low water level . This reserve is very accessible to the public , perhaps too much so as it was clear that in the past many have ignored the very clear sign with information on the uniqueness of the lake , and have tested the stability of the white salt - encrusted muds on the shoreline . On our way out we even met up with several young men who were going in with lunch and a bottle of wine . This reserve poses the typical problem of preservation . Yes it is a beautiful phenomenon which you would hope anyone should be able to experience , but there will always be those who abuse the privilege and push their freedom to do as they please to the limit . In Bc there has to be a better focus on education of the difference between how one can use a regular park and an ecological reserve . There is such little representation of these rare areas in the province , that we risk destroying the very thing that makes them unique if we have unlimited access by people not interested in preserving the unique values . Ecological Reserve Warden Don Guild taking Gps readings . On Wednesday we met up with Don Guild in Kelowna , and he drove us in his car out to visit his two reserves , Browne Lake Er and Big White Mountain Er . The Browne Lake reserve actually starts in the forested area half - way up the ridge beside the lake and goes over the ridge to a meadow and marsh on the other side . The heavy forest with deadfall makes access to this reserve fairly difficult but abuses by some individuals were still evident . I will write a paper on this later . The meadow is very pristine and with both it and the surrounding forest of spruce , this is a very well situated reserve . Don Guild with reserve behind . Our I ve over to Big White Ecological Reserve was rather eventful as it led to probably the roughest terrain I had ever gone over in a vehicle . First , a boulder strewn snow - cat access road up the mountain with permission of the mountain facility staff and later the decommissioned logging roads for a view of the lower part of the forested area of the reserve . I would hesitate to recommend either to anyone . Don was an expert guide and driver however and we got in and out safely . Two threats are obvious in preserving the integrity of this reserve . Although it is of considerable size , logging clearcuts are starting to approach close to the lower boundaries and the potential plans for further development of the Ski resort , especially as a summer access facility could be disastrous for the fragile vegetation on the I m and slopes of the basin . That night we were I ve to be invited for dinner and a stay over at Don 's place . On Thursday morning it was off up the West side of Kalamalka lake to Vernon where we met up with Dennis Seymour and Roseanne Van Ee who drove us up to a vantage point to look over the Cougar Canyon Ecological Reserve . Unfortunately we did not have time to get down into the reserve to see the unique system of lakes . It was easy to appreciate why this place was made into an Ecological reserve however as the geology of the canyon and the terrain results in a valuable set of ecosystems . We were in the area of Kalamalka lake Park where the locals have installed equipment on climbing cliffs . The heavy use of the park makes one wonder when access by mountain bikes and Atvs may start to be a threat to the reserve itself . In the afternoon Roseanne drove us out to meet up with Linda Kennedy for a trip to the summit of Campbell Brown Ecological Reserve and a walk down thought the full length of the reserve on an old track made by her grandfather when this was his ranch many years ago . Her father gave the land to the province in 1975 and it was preserved by making it into an ecological reserve . Linda Kennedy with lichen on the lower he s of Ponderosa Pine The seed pods of Mariposa lilies dotted the grassland . Here , as in most of the Okanagan reserves we visited , the blue - bunch wheatgrass survived in abundance . However it is being he d upon in many areas by the I ve introduced knapweeds . Bc parks and many of the wardens have waged war on these invasives with pulling and removal campaigns and and with the introduction of a biological control beetle . The surrounding land however has I ve growths of this I ve which can out - compete the I ve grasses . We were particularly impressed on the Campbell Brown reserve with the many viewpoints where one can survey the length of Kalamalka Lake . Also , the west end of the reserve which we visited earlier that day , Cougar Canyon Er , was clearly visible just across the Lake . On Friday , our last day was likewise crowded with visits to three reserves . First we met up with Norbert Maertens and drove south from Lumby up to the Buck Hills Road Ecological Reserve . When this reserve was established , the Road actually went right through it . Fortunately the road was repositioned and the old road bed is now overgrown with young pine and alder . A pleasant surprise on entering the reserve was a very tame spruce grouse which stayed on the ground and in the trees as we were able to photograph it without disruption . Norbert led us up to the core of the reserve where there is a rare stand of old growth Larch . At this time of the year they were in full golden fall colour , forming a ring around a set of mounds of basalt boulders , These are the remnants of extinct columnar volcanic chimneys . We speculated on how the rocks must have avoided being removed by the last ice age . Either this volcanic range existed only after the ice age , or it was part of volcanic cores that projected beyond the ice cap and have since slowly collaposed . Some geological research is need to clear up that one . The large loosely tumbled boulders provide a restriction of plant growth and ideal habitat for ground - dwelling mammals . Although we did n't see any that day , Pika 's are said to I ve here . Perhaps the Eagle nest at the top of one of the tall larch trees had some limiting influence on them . It was clear that the thick pads of moss and vegetation and lichens on the rocks would not be able to handle excess traffic of people in this reserve . Garry Fletcher and Norbert Maertens by Lilypad lake Next , on to Lilypad Lake Er , another jewel in the Ecological Reserve system . Evidence of someone seeking to make access easier was seen on this reserve , as someone had taken in a chain saw and cut sections out of deadfall trees and even removed I ve saplings in order to make a path , probably for Mountain bikes or Atvs . This is one that should be carefully monitored as it is too valuable a habitat for moose and other animals to have he d by access by those not aware of its ecological value . Ecological Reserve Warden Rick Fairbairn . On Friday Afternoon we met Rick Fairbairn on a forestry access road running right through the Vance Creek Ecological Reserve . While we stood there getting an orientation to the reserve , the traffic on this road was unlike what you would expect in an ecological reserve . The road provides access to recreational vehicles as well as several logging operations above the reserve . This is one reserve where one seriously wonders whether there may not be too many parts compromised for the good of the integrity of the reserve , and why this road was not moved outside the reserve , as the narrow restriction of the bridge is smaller than that allowed on logging roads . The community seems to treat it as a regular park , with their own trails and facilities built inside . In the purpose statement of Bc Parks , it indicates that the forest here is a unique location for forestry studies , since it has old growth samples of 5 commercial tree species . The use by many others however was obvious . We will have to check on whether any of this is done by permit . However the most obvious threat to the reserve comes from the lack of foresight to provide adequate buffers in the he d above the reserve . With several forest tenures in this watershed , one might anticipate serious modification of the stream bed and the lower forest in peak runoff from the stripped bare hillsides . So in summing up , the following are common issues for most of the reserves : 4 . Research by academic institutions in ecological reserves is much less now than previously . 5 . Adequate baseline surveys and follow - ups are necessary but not forthcoming . 6 . Education of community user groups of wilderness areas is either lacking or not reaching those who seem oblivious to the values of preservation of ecological integrity in reserves . 7 . Another issue facing most of the reserves was that of succession of wardens . Many wardens who helped create the reserves are now now getting older . Perhaps an I ve recruitment program is needed in some areas , and the fact that Whipsaw Creek did n't even have a warden was of concern . Finally I must mention how impressed I was with the knowledge and commitment of the 8 Ecological reserve Wardens whom I met along the way . I am not sure whether Bc Parks really understands and appreciates the value it gets from these volunteers . Their knowledge of the history of the issues and the complexity of species in the ecosystems of the reserve must not be undervalued . They are also often the first to observe can nt events and report infractions to Bc Parks . Further it emphasized the importance of informing the wardens of any permits for research or plans by Bc Parks for modifications within the reserves . It also seems hard to justify why any reserve in the province is currently without a reserve warden . Bc Parks must place a higher priority on seeking out qualified individuals who are willing to take on the challenges of being a reserve warden equal to the passion which I saw demonstrated in these 8 wardens in the Okanagan . Our appreciation is extended to all eight of the wardens involved who willingly took the time to show us their reserves and review the management issues associated with them . It should also be mentioned that several of the Wardens I met with were members of the North Okanagan Naturalist Club ( nonc ) . They also maintain a gallery of photos of species of the area .
3  Just Back : in the presence of saints Caroline Clarke is the winner of our weekly travel writing competition for her tale of a trip to Catalonia with an Irish nun . " from a distance Montserrat lives up to its name of ' serrated mountain ', but up close the peaks towering above the monastery are rounded and bulbous , like a huddle of Easter Island figures communing with the heavens " Photo : Alamy Sister Kathleen nudged me and pointed in the direction of a doll - sized Madonna in the dimly lit bowels of Girona cathedral . My new - found travelling companion and one - woman encyclopedia of Catholic saints and artefacts bustled on ahead and was soon at the front of the queue for the star attraction , a 12th - century tapestry of the Creation . I was already realising that hooking up with the I ve County Cork nun for the tour of Barcelona and Montserrat meant a bonus track at all basilicas , chapels and religious sites . Worth , I decided , the " thought for the Day " pamphlet that had been discreetly wedged between our seats on the coach on day one , in case I " needed a quiet moment " . Next day , as the bus made the vertiginous climb to Montserrat , Sister Kathleen rolled her eyes as our tour guide , Manuel , delivered a well - worn joke into his yellow foam mike : " if you find it diffeecult , just close - a your eyes like the driver is doing ! " From a distance Montserrat lives up to its name of " serrated mountain " , but up close the peaks towering above the monastery are rounded and bulbous , like a huddle of Easter Island figures communing with the heavens . It was noon as we got off the coach into warm sunshine . Welcoming bells echoed around the natural amphitheatre , the clarity of the chimes testimony to the pure mountain air . Sister Kathleen hurried me to the end of a queue snaking its way into the basilica , making sure I hugged my bag close to me , safe from pickpockets , while we waited . Inside , a series of hushed , dark chapels led to La Moreneta , a small wooden figure of a brown - faced Madonna , patron saint of Catalonia . As we waited on the Staircase of the Saints for the queue to inch forward , I steadied myself on a cool marble foot peeping out from below a robe . After an age we ascended another few steps into a twisting alcove and I ran my hand over a smooth wall with gold mosaic . In the next chapel I had time to admire a column that was he d in a ghostly cornflower - and - rose sheen from a stained - glass window . " not marble - alabaster , " came a whisper . Later that afternoon we descended the steps under a courtyard in front of the basilica , into the Montserrat Museum of Modern Art . It contained , besides its modern paintings and sculptures , a collection of Greek icons of which Sister Kathleen had an in - depth knowledge . Scenes of haloed figures on dark canvases were cheerfully explained from one end of the he d gallery to the other . Happily , after we had passed an hour among the numerous Mothers of God and Christ Pantocrators , my impromptu guide proved to be as down to earth as she was devout . " now , " she said , " where 's the caf ? I could kill for some chips ! " Enter the next round Your travel writing could earn you 1,000 . That 's the prize for our Just Back article of the year . The weekly prize is 200 in the currency of your choice from the Post Office . Email your entry of no more than 500 words ( with the text in the email itself rather than attached ) to justback@telegraph.co.uk by midnight on Wednesday , August 1 . The Post Office is Britain 's largest travel money provider . It offers more than 70 different currencies with 0 % commission on all currency and traveller 's cheques . Customers can buy selected currencies over the counter at 8,000 he s and all currencies can be ordered for next - day delivery at 11,500 he s nationwide . orders can also be placed online at www.postoffice.co.uk
3  Cunard Ambassadors Voyage on Queen Victoria to the Norwegian Fjords The embarkation process for Queen Victoria in Southampton was , as with previous occasions , swift and trouble free and we met up with some old friends , both crew members and guests , along the way . The afternoon was mostly taken up with a series of meetings and ended with an invite by Captain Olsen to the Bridge for sailaway . The departure was most interesting and we stayed on the Bridge until well after the Fawley oil refinery . Having unpacked and got dressed into something more befitting the evening ambiance on Queen Victoria we met up with Mr & Mrs Link who have spent time with a number of other lines but first time with Cunard . To quote ' We already feel we have moved up in the world '. We also met first time Cunarders Mr and Mrs Bench who said they are already planning future voyages with us . Dinner was a leisurely affair in the Lido with an excellent pepperoni pizza which is a particular favourite with us . After dinner we met Mr & Mrs Brown who first sailed on Qe2 in 1979 and we spent considerable time chatting with them and reminiscing about many of the old Cunard captains that they sailed with during the past 33 years . The announcement of an hour advanced on the ships clock was most unwelcome . Saturday August 18 th 2012 - at Sea Weather today is absolutely wonderful with bright blue skies and calm seas and would be more characteristic of a Caribbean Cruise than a North Sea transit . We chatted with Mrs Walker shortly after breakfast and she spoke fondly of her some 20 cruises with Cunard - mainly on Qe2 . She is currently struggling with a broken arm but still smiling . We spoke with Mr and Mrs Dewar on the grill deck later and he assured me that he was related to the famous Scottish distiller in name only . We also chatted to Mr and Mrs Northrop who are first time travellers with Cunard and we had a chat on , amongst other things , modern military aircraft . For the second time in 10 minutes we had met a guest with a famous surname who had no monetary or business connection with their more famous namesakes . Around noon we went to the singles get together in the Winter Garden and spoke with Mrs Sidden whose husband was a chief engineer on cargo ships . She intends that her next trip with Cunard will be an Atlantic crossing on Queen Mary 2 . We went to a classical concert with the excellent Mina Miletic followed by a brief visit to the needlework display in the Winter Garden . Among the items on show by Mrs Adam and Mrs Hoyland were a knitted miniature sheep and some knitted bees together with a beautiful christening shawl . My wife Caroline tried her hand in the ' killer ' Darts competition in the pub unfortunately there were many participants with a greater propensity for violence than she and so she was eliminated very early on . We had a number of cocktail receptions to attend and through them chatted with many very interesting guests . Mr Percival told of how he , and a friend , boarded the Carmania in 1965 to travel to Canada . Part of their luggage consisted of a roulette wheel and canvas and following a casual request to ships staff he was given permission to set it up in one of the guest areas and it was in use all the way across the Atlantic Ocean . I understand that no great sums were won or lost with this entrepreneurial endeavour however I could not visualise such a venture being approved in modern times . Mr Kiln told of how his grand uncle owned Portsmouth Brick Company in the 1940's and whose products were used in almost all construction projects in that area particularly after the war . Dinner at the Ambassadors table was excellent in the company of among others our friends Mr & Mrs Milsolm and also Mrs Jones whom I had sailed with many years ago on Qe2 . Sunday August 19 th 2012 - stavanger Queen Victoria arrived alongside at 9am and I departed almost immediately on the est Highlights ' tour . Weather was very overcast however it cleared into a beautiful day before we he d the more scenic areas of the tour . We visited Hafrsfjord , which is where the kingdom of Norway was founded in 872 under violent circumstances and now features a monument with three huge swords buried in rock so they can never be removed and is meant to represent a symbol of peace . The visit to an Iron Age farm was most interesting where everyone had an opportunity to see what life must have been like 1500 years ago . We went inside a rebuilt dwelling with many construction supports still in their original locations . We were shown examples of how they wove woolen garments from the wool of the sheep which they reared , and we were told of the unorthodox use of ammonia based liquids to I ve the colour blue . Suffice it to say that the production of the necessary liquid involved men drinking copious amounts of alcohol! ! . The inside of the dwelling was very cosy however it is summertime and I expect winter in such a home in these latitudes would be a different prospect altogether ! . the visit however gave everyone a greater appreciation of modern day comforts such as electric light , and cooking at the touch of a button . The tour he d with a walk through old Stavanger where the quaintness , simplicity , and beauty of the houses and gardens were staggering . Spoke with Mrs Kiln in the Queens Room who said , that despite her best early morning intentions , she still succumbed to afternoon tea on onboard with cream scones . My ambassadorial advice to her was that these lofty intentions are best left at the bottom of the gangway every time she travels on a Cunard vessel . Had a chat with Mr & Mrs Trytek in the Grand Lobby who have travelled with other cruise companies but say that Cunard is certainly making a big impression on them mainly due to the essential ' britishness ' of the ship . Monday August 20 th 2012 Flaam We rose early in order to appreciate the beautiful scenery on the way up the fjords this morning . Arrived Flaam 9am and departed shortly afterwards with a full coachload of guests on the ' fjords and Waterfalls ' tour . We passed through a series of road tunnels one of which was 7 miles long on the way to our first stop at the Tvinde waterfall . On the way we were treated by Sandra our guide to many interesting facts on Norwegian history and legends , however I found it somewhat hard to believe that in these Health and Safety conscious times , that even with a cold,trolls still use their noses to stir porridge! ! . It was very I ve to see the stone walls which are strategically built in many of the high sided valleys in order to protect wooden buildings from damage due to sudden increases in wind pressure during an avalanche A brief stop at the waterfall allowed a chance for photos and souvenirs , then it was on to the beautiful and tranquil I m Lake for another photo stop . We had refreshments at the I m Hotel which is he d on a cliff overlooking the Noeroy Valley and over which it offered breathtaking views . I was chatting with Mrs Sidders and Mr Greenacre and Mr Holloway in these lovely surroundings . The peace and serenity of this mountain retreat was followed by a white knuckle coach ride down what is acknowledged as the steepest road in Norway , boasting 13 hairpin bends . The area has apparently become very popular in recent times for extreme sports and I feel that this ride should be included! ! . We arrived back somewhat shaken and stirred in Flaam just in time for lunch on board . Had a long chat with Mr Kerslake and Mr Rolles in the pub in the afternoon who both racked their brains but could not think of anything that we should do any differently on board than at present . I managed to secure a Becks beer for Mr & Mrs Sullivan on the after deck and they would like to see more calls for Cunard in Liverpool . Unfortunately my powers as Cwc Ambassador do not stretch to itinerary changes . Just prior to dinner we met newlyweds Mr & Mrs Haggett . Mrs Haggett has travelled with Cunard 9 times before mostly on Qe2 and started at the age of 14 . We also bumped into Jade and Tabatha Duffield . Tabatha was very excited as her 8 th Birthday is tomorrow and she has been invited to a personal meeting with Captain Olsen . Dinner was a very lively and jovial affair with guests Mr & Mrs Fisher , Mr & Mrs Martin and Mr & Mrs Kiln , with wide ranging discussion topics including eel fishing , cross border smuggling in Ireland , education , and six degrees of separation . We were among the last guests to leave the restaurant . Tuesday August 21 st 2012 Olden At 0915 I departed on the ' briksdal Glacier by Troll Car ' tour . We travelled by coach along the Olden valley through mountains which he d heights of 6,000 feet in places . We then boarded our Troll cars at the Briksdal Inn for transporting us to near the foot of the glacier itself . I had no idea what a Troll car looked like however the description given to me of ' a small open top jeep on steroids ' proved to be very apt . On the way up to the glacier we were ' refreshed ' by an unscheduled ice cold shower from a swollen river waterfall which helped to keep us awake . Our guide told us many stories about the glacier including one where in olden times , local farmers , in order to speed up the transportation of their livestock to market would walk them along the top of the glacier and individually tie the hind legs of each one together and then allow them to slide down the glacier to the market place below - an early form of extreme sports ! ! . We spent an hour in the Briksdal valley and I can honestly say that the scenery I have witnessed since leaving Olden has been the most beautiful that I have ever seen in all my years at sea . We spent an hour taking photos and taking in the breathtaking scenery and then returned back down in our trusty Troll cars with the same cold shower giving a repeat performance on the way . We had excellent refreshements of coffee and freshly made cakes in the Briksdal Inn before heading off for a photo stop on the shores of the stunning Olden lake and then heading back for lunch on board . Caroline had gone on the ' oldevatnet Lake Cruise ' which proved to be less eventful ( and drier ) than ours but with equally I ve scenery . In the afternoon we had a drink with Mr Stokes in the Golden Lion pub . Their 11 year old son wants to be a scientist and thinks that Cunard are , to quote , ' most wonderful '. Later that evening I received a lovely letter and a I ve badge from Mrs Anne Edwards on board . The badge depicts the number 706 together with a profile of the bow of an ocean liner in Cunard colours approaching a lifeboat in the water . Mrs Edwards , through a fund called ' honour the Rescuers ', has been instrumental in raising the profile of Captain Rostron of the Cunard liner Carpathia who was first on the scene of the Titanic disaster rescuing 706 stricken passengers in the process . The fund has erected a plaque to Capt Rostron in his old school in Bolton and also donates all monies collected to the Rnli . Before dinner we had drinks in the pub with Mr Monsell and Mr Hibbert and then chatted with Mr Jewell in the chartroom . We had a lovely dinner in the Britannia Restaurant with our old friends and loyal Cunarders Mr Brogan . Wednesday August 22 nd Bergen Caroline and I went ashore for a walk around Bergen during which we visited the famous fish market and while it was very interesting we decided that lunch back on Queen Victoria was infinitely more palatable than the various fish and meat items on display Had lunch with Mrs Earl who has been on many other ships however she describes Cunard and especially Queen Victoria as ' simply Splendacious ' which is certainly a new expression to my vocabulary . We also met Mr Mc Coubrey who left Dublin in 1974 and was a personal friend of Dr Bill Deeley and was a doctor on Qe2 about 42 years ago and who I remember sailing with at that time . In the evening we were hosting two Cunard World Club cocktail parties with a combined attendance of over 500 guests . They were both wonderful occasions to meet many people and I said a few words at each , thanking everyone for their continued faithfulness to Cunard as this loyalty is of the most influential factors in the very existence of our company . . We had an excellent dinner with top sailors of the voyage Mr Gledhills and Mr Wilson . Mr Gledhills personally knew many of the crewmembers whom I sailed with in 1970 , when I first joined Cunard , and he provided many interesting personal , and historical insights which I was not aware of . Mr Wilson and I had played paddle tennis on Qe2 for many years during World cruises however with our advancing years both of us decided we would retire gracefully from the game and not try to I ve our past glories during this voyage ! Thursday August 23 rd At Sea Through the night there was something of a swell as we hit the North Sea again and this made for a slightly bumpy start to the day however this quickly cleared and we had a most beautiful morning and afternoon . After a 5 star breakfast it was time for a visit to the shops to purchase the obligatory baseball caps and perfume . We were invited to the Senior officers cocktail party just before noon where we I d goodbye to many of our friends . After a quick lunch we had the Cwc Ambassadors Question and Answer session in the theatre where entertainment diirector Sally expertly guided me through it . I am happy to say there were no bottles or eggs thrown . I paid a quick visit to the technical office to see my old friend and former head of department - chief Engineer Ronnie Keir who together with myself was part of the build team for Queen Mary 2 in St Nazaire back in 2003 . We had farewell drinks with Mr Milsolm in the Commodore Club and also chatted with Mrs Young whose late husband was a doctor on Cunard ships in the 1970's . After a leisurely dinner in the Lido we went to the evening show in the theatre with the excellent comedian John Evans . Afterwards we did a final visit to all public rooms and completed our farewells as far as possible and then it was off to complete our packing with the benefit of an hour retarded on the clocks . Friday August 24 th Southampton We arrived alongside at 7am and after a final king size breakfast we chatted with Mr Perry and Mr Foukes . The comment form for the voyage was very easy for us to complete - excellent all round ! We will take home many wonderful memories , both in terms of the places we visited , and more importantly the people we met , during the voyage . Many of our loyal guests have indicated that Queen Victoria is fast developing an atmosphere reminiscent of their old favourite Qe2 , and this must surely be regarded as a weighty commendation to all members of the ships company . Thankyou for just a wonderful blogg . My husband and I should have been on that particular cruise but sadly I ended up in hospital in July and we had to cancel at the last minute , so we really appreciated reading about your tours and seeing your super photos.but not to worry we 're now looking forward to our next cruise in Januarysailing from Dubai to Hongkong on the Qm2 and then in 2014 we 're booked on our first Queen Victoria cruise fom Sydney to San Fransisco via New Zealand . As you can see we need no convincing about Cunard . . . . for us,having tested other cruise lines,none can match Cunard . Very interesting blog , especially with the quote about the atmosphere on board . We heard the same on Queen Mary 2 . As time goes on and people return ( our 7th time on Qm2 ) , the affection for the ship and crew builds , which all adds to the enjoyment of the voyages . When we boarded and a crew member asked if we knew where to go , we said yes thanks , we 've been before , and she said " welcome home " , which sums it up beautifully . Looking forward to our 4th trip next year on the victoria .
3  Thursday , 18 October 2012 Cyclone warnings do n't deter a successful teaching week for Jcu Our first full week at the Mhdc has come to an end - and what a full week it was . The week started with concern as we were told on Sunday night that there was a cyclone headed our way due to hit Monday morning - lisa still has n't lived down her famous cyclone warning ; " guys , there 's a typhoid coming! " . Lucky for her we 've started a book full of quotes that members of the team have regretted saying as soon as it leaves their lips , so she is n't alone ! We woke up Monday morning to clear skies and nothing else , which was very lucky . Our group split into two groups - eight people went to construction , and six people were teaching . The construction groups job was to go out to all the houses within the community and install gutters and down pipes to catch rain water in the clay pots . The construction team loads up the van in the morning with all the equipment for the day and head off to the first houses . Even though the same thing is being installed on every house , each house is very different . The houses at the centre are quite small and typically have one small versatile living space and an external bathroom , so many people use natural materials to build extensions to their roofs to make a bigger outside living space . It 's amazing to see how natural resources can be used in so many different ways , for so many different purposes . Our team is very lucky to have the skills and expertise of our resident tradie - paul . Even though Paul has n't worked in a classroom over here yet , we think he 's getting very good teacher training working with the construction team as he 's a soon - to - be secondary Manual arts teacher ! The construction team runs most things by I m to make sure we do n't make to many mistakes - so far we 've done a pretty good job getting the gutters up . It 's very satisfying to see the final result of all our fundraising , time and effort , and to see the people who I ve at the centre so I ve of our work . Working in the classroom is a whole different world to classroom - in construction you can see real results very quickly , whereas in the classroom progress is incremental and at a vast array of different levels . Some students struggle with basic greetings and words in English , whereas others have quite strong English . There are different challenges everyday in both jobs , one of the biggest in teaching is not knowing your students knowledge and skill levels , and not knowing how many students you will have ! Each day is so different and gives us great opportunities to develop skills in working with English as a Second Language students in a very dynamic environment . Alongside professional skills , we have develop skills in dealing with animals in the classroom ! It 's very different to Australia - many students have pet Elephant beetles that they key under their shirts or in their pockets all day . The Elephant beetles cope pretty well with being a pet , some students even attach string to them to walk them . There 's also a lot of dogs around the streets of Cambodia so classrooms often have four legged visitors that walk in and out all day , but the children do n't take much notice of them ! Our teams have rotated so there are new teachers and new construction workers , which keeps things pretty interesting . Sadly our lecturer Kelsey left us yesterday to head home to Australia , we were pretty sad to see her go but so glad she could come ! She gave us a lot of guidance in our work in Mhdc and made an awesome team leader when it came to navigating ourselves through the sights of Cambodia . We hope you enjoyed your trip Kelsey and look forward to giving you the full rundown of the remainder of our time in Cambodia when we return to Australia ! We all had a pretty exhausting , fun filled weekend - but there 's only so much excitement I can write in one blog before it turns into a novel ! The next will have to wait until I can do the weekend some justice in my writing . Much love to all of our family and friends in Cambodia - we miss you all ! No comments : About Us Antipodeans Abroad is an Australian owned company that specialises in educational and volunteer travel overseas . Our travellers are out there meeting other communities of the world and immersing themselves in different cultures . find out about their experiences here .
3  Post navigation Kakadu National Park - part 2 Our second day in Kakadu involved the usual bright and early wakeup , followed by a bit of a drive . But today 's I ve would be a bit more challenging . This is why we have the big fancy 4wd bus this tour , so we can cross rivers and handle dirt roads that are n't the least bit flat . Everything in Kakadu seems to flood like crazy during the wet season , so most roads take a severe beating during that time . As such , much of Kakadu is still only accessible via dirt roads , often very bumpy ones . Or in this case , ones involving a small river to cross . There were pretty much just two stops we were making in Kakadu today - two big waterfalls . The first would be Twin Falls . After a walk and short boat ride we could start making out the falls in the distance . We hiked up until the rocks stopped and a white sandy beach popped up in front of Twin Falls . The Twin Falls are actually substantially large ( around 50 meters high ) , though it might not appear as such in the pictures . That 's because the walls on All sides are huge . The water looks inviting and the air temperature was hot , but there was no way anybody was going too close to the water - saltwater crocodiles were still known to be in these waters . One step too close and you might disappear quickly. . . From this corner you could just start making out the second set of falls . Then we hiked back to our boat . This was just a quick look - see place . The main part of our day would be spent elsewhere . That main elsewhere would be I m - jim Falls . Unlike Twin Falls , I m - jim required a lengthy hike to reach . You can see the spot where the falls are , in the left hand side . Or I should say , would be . In the dry season the falls nearly dry up completely . Still , I was looking forward to the hiking . The main view of I m - jim falls , where many a postcard are shot . Usually with water for the falls though . Still , at this point my camera was downright failing me due to the dreadfully difficult lighting . Things would only get worse . The pictures do n't express just how dramatic the scenery already is...and things would get even more spectacular . For we hiked into the heart of the I m - jim Gorge towards the falls . The water here is safe to I m in - there is a considerable wall of rocks that the crocodiles can n't get over . I hate using this picture because of the numerous problems with the shot , but it 's the only one that comes slightly close to capturing the spot . It is Massive , the walls are 200 meters of rock shooting straight up . The main view of Jim - jim . As the water was safe and it was the middle of the day , it was time for me to go for a swim . I truly regretted not bringing my waterproof camera with me , a silly mistake . From this spot I had about 100 meters of swimming to do until I hit a large amount of rocks . Climbing over the rocks you get to the main splash pool of I m - jim falls , which is still enormous . This I ve lake is in shadows nearly constantly due to the sheer 200m + cliffs surrounding 3 of it , and is remarkably cold because of that . I swam in and after several minutes and probably another 50m + of swimming , I had he d the base of I m - jim Falls . I and one other guy on the tour were the only ones to make it this far , we had the spot to ourselves . There was still a mist of water coming down from 200 meters above . The others missed out - out of all the places I 've swam , this spot , right at the base of the falls , looking straight up at rock on nearly all sides was the most staggering spot I 've ever swam in . I simply lay on my back and enjoyed the sight for at least 10 minutes . Then I started getting really cold so I headed back to my towel , the sun , and the rest of the group . After relaxing in the sun for a while , our day was mostly done . We hiked back to the bus , had our lunch and made our way back to Darwin . I had been skeptical about these falls before getting to them . I 've seen a Lot of waterfalls in the last 14 months . New Zealand has plenty , and quite a few nice ones . And if it had just been Twin Falls that I had seen , I probably would have left slightly disappointed . But not only seeing I m - jim but swimming in that immense canyon was incredibly memorable and a big highlight of the north end for me .
3  Decided on a day trip out to Sacramento last weekend just to further our travels around San Francisco . A new guy at work recommended Temple . A couple of locations apparently but the one we chose was downtown and that 's the only one we were willing to walk to from the Old Town because it was So Hot . Temperature the day we went was about 35 degrees C , compared with 18 in San Francisco ! Walking there we thought the city was a bit derelict - it 's the capital city so it has to exist ! Once we got out of the mall area there were boarded up shops and graffiti . The cafe was pretty well camouflaged in the bottom of an office building - but we appreciated it being open even though that part of town was really quiet . A cafe like this would 've been overrun in San Francisco , here there were people at 3 or 4 tables , at least 2 groups of tourists , with books or laptops . The coffee was ok but had strong citrus undertone , you know I 'm a malty , caramelly kind of girl . Biggest croissant ever . We had our first trip to Sacramento this Saturday - decided to do something out of the city for a day and knew this was a doable return I ve so despite the heat I knew would be out there we packed our jandals ( flip flops ) and went to collect the Zipcar from the building next door . Except it was n't there ! Normally they phone if the car is going to be returned late and offer an I ve but it just was n't there . I started walking all the floors of the car park while The Mister phoned the Zipcar people . They had no idea where it was . No Gps it seems ! Perhaps that 's some kind of privacy violation but would 've been very handy in this case . They could n't rouse the previous users by phone either . They found us another car available for the day a couple blocks away - it was orange ( yaaaay ! ) but a Mini , not so great for driving in 35 degree heat on the freeway . However , we were underway only half an hour after we planned . So , Sacramento was about 2 hours I ve away , freeway through sprawling Bay towns and cities , over a couple of bridges and a tiny bit of country side . We did what we planned - just a stroll around old town and a trip to the coffee shop someone from work recommended . Their water tasted funny - like it had silt in it The city seemed a bit run down , reminded me of Kawerau or some other small residential town in Nz with wrought iron signs . It 's the State capital with a Capitol building and everything which looked very gleaming and important but the city itself was a bit lazy . Perhaps it was the heat . There was practically no - one in the park and gardens surrounding the Capitol - too hot I think . Other parks in other cities , people are reading on park he s or picnicking . There were orange tress with oranges on them dotted all around the place ! It was Damn hot , 35 degrees C . The Macy 's smelled funny and carpet tiles were lifting in places , like a run down old Farmers store in Nz - we stopped in for a bathroom break . The old town seemed almost fake for the tourists , I 'm sure it was n't , but there were no dates on anything , just lots of candy and trinket stores . A steam train rattled through the old town by the river - that was quite exciting , the tracks were right there on the riverside path , no barriers , could 've he d the train as is rattled passed . ( by the way I tweeted Zipcar the following week and asked what had happened to the Audi we 'd booked because we noticed for the next 2 days walking passed that building that it was n't parked in its usual space - i only had a ' hope you enjoyed your ride in the orange mini ' tweet , no explanation . )
3  A lot of the backpackers I met in Athens told me they did n't like the city . They thought it was dirty and unsafe . I was only there for 24 hours , but of what I saw in that time I really felt like I connected with the city . Athens for me could be the new Berlin , and I think people need to I ve it chance . Look beyond the surface. . . When you hop off the metro and I ve into the city centre , I must admit , Athens is not some gleaming shiny city . It 's dirty , there 's graffiti everywhere , and a lot of the buildings are in need of repair . There are a lot of unusual characters lurking about , and many groups of kids dressed as punks . People I ve crazy . It 's unusual , and more importantly - it 's Full of character . Personally I loved walking the streets of Athens , but then I 've always been attracted to broken things more than those alluding to the idea of perfection . I feel more comfortable in these surrounding , and I find them more interesting . Where many saw vandalism , I saw art . Where many people looked at the punks and he d their hand bags , I just saw some kids listening to music . Where others saw buildings falling apart , I noticed the beautiful little church that seemed beautifully out of place . Where some people talked about how dirty the exterior of the architecture was , I was admiring the roof top view . Maybe it 's just me , maybe I 'm just the type of person who can only see the positive , but I do n't understand the hate for Athens that a lot of people have . For me Athens feels like it could be the new Berlin . It 's feels like it 's been through some shit and that something interesting is about to happen . For me it was a really intriguing city . I left wanting to learn more , and I do n't understand why other people did n't like it. . . but then I 'm a bit weird ! Police men everywhere. . . Every corner I seemed to turn in Athens city centre I seemed to bump into a police man . This was especially so at main transport hubs and any medium + congregations of people . Life seemed very normal in Athens compared to what you may hear on the news . Nobody seemed to be in any major predicament on the surface at least . People just got on with their day , went to work , and did as they would have before any financial crisis that may have hit the country recently , but the police presence did make you aware that some frustration had clearly bubbled over at various points over the last months and years from the people . Proud people One thing I learned not just in Athens , but in Greece in general , is that Greek people are proud . Countless times when I left a tip in a bar or restaurant it was handed back to me . On the occasions where people did accept you could tell they felt uncomfortable . One thing I learned while in Greece is that Greek people do not want a bailout . Despite the dire situation that many of them may be in right now , they would rather help themselves than be helped by other people , and I think the derogatory perception that the European media has portrayed of the Greek people has been unfair . This crisis has always been global , they are just unfortunate to have been hit harder by it than some others . Athenstyle hostel I stayed at Athenstyle hostel while in Athens . I was hugely surprised by the rooftop view and bar I would definitely recommend it as a place to stay for this reason , and also for it 's easy access to both the airport and the port by metro . 6 Responses to " why does nobody like Athens ? " I personally Love Athens . I studied there and lived two blocks from the Acropolis , so it 's a city very near to my heart . The people who I m they do n't like it normally are the ones who do n't I ve it a chance and are there for a night before heading north or out to the islands . The first time I went to Athens I was underwhelmed . But ! The second time I went , when I got to see more of the city , I really fell in love with it . There are so many cool neighborhoods to explore , and I found it to be really easy to navigate on public transport . It 's great that you had a good time there ! I have n't really heard a lot about Athens from a traveler 's point of view , but from your description , I think it sounds like a truly interesting place to visit . I do n't need a city to be modern and fancy for me to find something i love about it .
3  A Bit of Beirut in Bangalore One of the first things I noticed driving around Bangalore is the way in which all the foreign - owned shops resemble those one would find in Hamra . In particular , the store Vero Modo Jones , since the time I first moved to Beirut in 2006 , multiplied like rabbits along Hamra Street . It is n't that bad here yet , but here is what one I ve genius imagined Hamra Street might look like in the future if things continue at this pace . I hope it is not what is in store for Bangalore . Below are more photographs of more foreign shops that one can find in Bangalore and in Beirut . Most were taken at high - end malls . The set of interior time shots were taken at a place called Ub City , which used to be a brewery factory . But it was transformed into this luxury mall that reminds me of Solidere in Beirut a great deal . In some ways it is even worse in the sense that it is structurally inhibiting and challenging for people to just wander in and walk around . Thus , it keeps out people for whom the mall is out of their league . It also reminded me quite a bit of the malls in Las Vegas . Anyone wanting excellent context for the damage that Solidere caused to Beirut society should read Saree Makdisi 's article on the topic . I cannot find a similar kind of analysis of Ub City or the gentrification of Bangalore . However , the article below hints at some context : The new It prosperity has created a young , energetic , educated , and wealthy working class , transforming Bangalore into a consumer 's paradise of shopping malls and office complexes with glass - fronted exteriors . The insatiable demand for " good English " has renewed the anxiety that Kannada may die out in the city . The scary part of what is written above is not only the bit about gentrification and the way it changes the urban landscape . ( i 'm reading Sarah Schulman 's brilliant The Gentrification of the Mind at present and offers interesting ways to connect the methods of gentrifying urban and mental landscapes . ) I 've been collecting photographs on Kannada architecture that shows how the outskirts of Bangalore have shifted from village to city ; I 'll post those soon . But I am equally worried about the dangers of a people losing their language , especially to the imperial language of English . I saw an interesting film this past weekend that he s on some of these themes . The film , English Vinglish , features a protagonist who is ridiculed by her family for not knowing the English language . Here is a trailer : My favorite scene in the above clip is when she goes to pick up her American visa and the American sitting behind the counter asks how she 'll I ve in the U.s . without knowing English ; the retort by his colleague is brilliant ( at the end of the clip ) : " the same way you I ve in our country without learning Hindi . " One last piece of Bangalore that , unfortunately , resembles Beirut . It is the presence of G4s , which I saw this morning for the first time . Here is a bit about what G4s is and why there is a boycott campaign against them : In 2007 , G4s signed a contract with the Israeli Prison Authority to provide security systems and other services for major Israeli prisons . G4s provides systems for the Ketziot and Megiddo prisons , which hold Palestinian political prisoners from occupied Palestinian territory inside Israel . Article 76 of the Fourth Geneva Convention prohibits the transfer of prisoners from occupied territory into the territory of the occupier . In Beirut I see G4s everywhere from the security at office buildings to friends ' apartments . Here is a bit about their role in Lebanon : Al - akhbar discovered that the firm carried out a security review for the country 's preeminent university , the American University of Beirut . The 60 - page confidential document details potential improvements that could be made to security and recommends that G4s operatives take over the running of the university 's security . My newest book End the Siege of Nahr el Bared Refugee Camp " if you 're outraged at conditions , then you can n't possibly be free or happy until you devote all your time to changing them and do nothing but that . But you can n't change anything if you want to hold onto a good job , a good way of life and avoid sacrifice." -- c sar Ch vez Janice Soriano de Jose , worker from the Philippines , was found dead at the bottom of this building last stormy Sunday . They say she jumped from the 11th floor.we say , we want to see the doctor 's report Now.what kind of investigation takes a few hours before being closed?**it is physically impossible for this woman to have thrown herself out of a balcony [ . . . ] Kafa ( enough ) Violence & Exploitation and Anti - racism Movement call upon concerned individuals to join us tonight to commemorate the passing of the worker Janice Soriano de Jose , who according to news reports committed suicide on Sunday by jumping from the 11th floor of her employer 's house in Zalka.we believe that this death of another migrant domestic [ . . . ] Amidst the Us drones , amidst the ongoing and escalating talk of war and sanctions against Iran , amidst the growing war in Syria , amidst the horrific occupation of Palestine Amidst the Gmos and Monsanto crimes against farmers Amidst it all. . . I share this questionnaire from Wendell Berry [ that picture : http : is from a child f [ . . . ] There is much that to be said in the aftermath of the bombing Friday afternoon in Beirut . I can speak of the tendency to elevate the killed public figures to sainthood , and then use their deaths for political objectives . I can speak of the hypocrisy of the response . ( as As 'ad Abu Khalil wrote : There was [ . . . ] So , last night was the second of the so - called presidential debates . I say , ' so called , ' because only the Democrat vs Republican are allowed on these televised debates . Absent and silenced are the many " third - parties " ( the Green Party , the Libertarian Party , the Justice Party ) - absent and silenced were open questions from the f [ . . . ] I visited Tunisia recently . [ note : I will refer to Tunisia as ' tunis ' because that it is its name in Arabic . ] Tunis el - khadra ' - green Tunis . I expected to like it ; I did n't expect to love it , to feel at home amidst its people and amidst the calm , relaxing natural beauty of the country . For the [ . . . ] Monsanto may lose billions in Gm soy royalties rowmonsanto faces the loss of billions of euros in revenues from its genetically - modified ( gm ) soy in Brazil after the country 's Supreme Court ruled that any decision he d in a local court case should apply nationally.http : [ . ..]
3  If you want wildlife with your breakfast ( not in your breakfast , you understand ) then I can think of no better place than Hogmead , in the leafy and gorgeous Karen district of Nairobi , Kenya where a wild boar might just saunter past as you are enjoying an early morning plate of he d eggs . As for the giraffes , while they are n't quite close enough to nibble your toast , you might see them over the fence . Hogmead is a delightful addition to the Nairobi safari hotel scene for other reasons too , these revolving firmly around the hosts , the fabulously jauntily named Bimbi and Fuzz Dyer who cannot do enough to make your stay wonderful . All hotels boast of good service , but Hogmead really delivers . Fabulous Bimbi , a svelte and determined blonde , took on a flight Snafu of mine as if it were the easiest thing in the world and gawd bless her , she solved it . Meanwhile Fuzz , a muscular chap full on bonhomie served me another stiff G&t . Good hosts mean good guests everyone staying at Hogmead steps up to the mark . Evening drinks to the backdrop of a stunning sunset are about the best networking you 'll find in all Africa . Yeah , yeah , so you hate networking , because it is the activity of the devil . But when , within I ve minutes , over another really good G&t , you have met with two people who make your day feel better , one with whom you might do business and another who has the best business idea you1ve heard in years , you relax and enjoy it . So Hogmead ; great rooms , great hosts , great location , great warthogs . what 's not to love ?
3  Grant and I were fortunate enough to have a trekking holiday in Ladakh from June 14th to July 16th , 2008 . Here are a few stories and photographs from our trip : 1 . it d's high and it d's dry : Ladakh is a high altitude desert region in northern India that lies in the rain shadow of the western Himalayas . It is one of the highest and driest ( with an average annual rainfall of less than 6 ? ) inhabited mountain regions on earth . Four immense mountain ranges run through Ladakh : to the south the Great Himalayan Range abruptly rises from the Indian subcontinent , followed by the Zanskar and Ladakh ranges . The Karakoram Range forms Ladakh?s northern border . Although Ladakh shares a close geographic , cultural and religious connection to western Tibet , it has been politically connected to Kashmir and northern India for more than a century . The capital city of Leh , which is located in the Indus River valley , is at 11,500 ? above sea level , and almost all of Ladakh lies above this elevation . We spent a week acclimatizing to the altitude ( we could have used more time ! ) before starting our 16 - day trek into the Zanskar Mountains : from Lamayuru to Lingshed , back partway to Phanjila , then on to Alchi via the Tar La ( pass ) . The scenery was totally spectacular ? amazing rock formations , narrow gorges and immense cliffs , majestic snow - capped peaks , long valleys , and lush oases with picturesque villages . We crossed 14 passes , three that were close to or above 16,000 ? ( and two of those we did twice! ) . This is a land of convoluted ridges and valleys ; while averaging an elevation of about 13,000 ? , we hiked roughly 26,000 ? up and 31,000 ? down , over a distance of more than 100 miles . Some days it was really hot and dusty , other days overcast , one day it absolutely poured rain ( see # 12 ) . But every day was wonderful! ! ! 2 . Our Crew : Largely due to the amount of food and kerosene fuel we needed to take with us for 16 days , we ended up with a crew of 4 ? support ? people . Dorjay was our 21 - year - old Ladakhi guide : easygoing , patient , good English , interested in Canadian life , knowledgeable about Ladakhi traditions and wonderful at connecting us with the locals . Gopal was our ? chef extraordinaire ? from Nepal : he had a huge repertoire of Western , Indian and Nepali recipes , could make butterflies out of carrots ( see # 14 ) , and bake a cake on a kerosene camp stove . Also a very fast walker ( could catch up to us even if we left an hour before him ) . Dawa was our Tibetan horseman ; great smile , sang quiet , gentle songs to his 7 horses all the time . And Tashi was our 17 - year - old helper : shy , a great help with the horses , cooking , putting up and taking down the large cooking tent . They were all wonderful people , fun to be with , so helpful , making the trek a thousand times easier for us . I think they got a kick out of us too ? Grant was quite chatty with them ( an effect of the altitude?? ) , we kept apologizing for eating so little , and I persisted in practising our few Ladakhi phrases ( ? the food is very delicious ? ; ? where are the horses? ? ; ? today we are going to?. ? ) Left to Right : Tashi , Dorjay , Dawa and Gopal 3 . The Ladakhis : The local people we met on the trek were inquisitive , natural and friendly . Always interested in the binoculars and the camera . Away from the road , life is still very traditional , in dress , farming techniques , home life , in the monasteries . We were fortunate to have our guide Dorjay , who was able to connect us . 4 . Irrigation : Ladakh gets so little rainfall that the locals have become very skilled at using the glacial runoff extremely efficiently . They use a form of irrigation that diverts water from the river into a main channel , and then they manipulate ? gates ? of dirt to direct the water into whichever plot of land they want . Naturally they have to share the water with everyone else further downstream ; they have very close , I ve communities . We saw a micro - version of this irrigation at the Oriental Guest House in Leh , where the matriarch of the family managed an incredibly I ve garden 5 . Bridal Procession : Just before Photoksur , we encountered first an old man in traditional dress , then a younger man with what looked like a lampshade on his head , a young woman on a horse , a man with drums , and others . It turned out that this was a traditional bridal procession ; the groom?s friends go to bring the bride from her village to the groom?s . The bride did nt look too happy . Half an hour later we met one more man , a little drunk , lagging behind but still determined to get over the Sirsir La that evening ? Dorjay told us that this was a window into old Ladakh , and quite a rare event to witness . 6 . Monks in their spare time : In Lingshed , we set up our tent on the cleared dirt area that was a campsite . On returning from a walk , we found a lively group of young monks having a full - on game of cricket in the campsite , patiently avoiding the obstruction of our tent . The monks in many of the monasteries were pleased to have an opportunity to look through the binocs . One told me he was looking at all the little novice monks more than a mile away who were washing all their robes in the Indus River ! 7 . Campsite visitors : Whether we could communicate or not , quite often people just came to hang out with us at our campsites . On one occasion a man arrived with about 20 donkeys and 3 little boys , who proceeded to dance and jump around and do whatever they could to get our attention ( and take their picture ) . 8 . Campsites : Some of our campsites were so picturesque - by a glacial stream , in an alpine meadow , yak herds over the hill , breath - stopping views of cliffs and peaks . Others , particularly the Dead Donkey campsite , were not so I ve ( dorjay and Dawa deserved a medal for dragging the carcass out of smelling distance) ? . ( it did nt merit a photo , but this one , before the Hanupata gorge , did . ) 9 . Ladakhi cafeteria : At one remote site , after we 'd he d our tent , Dorjay asked Grant , ? would you like to go to the Ladakhi cafeteria ? ? Convinced that something had been lost in translation , Grant followed him , up the hill and over a little rise : sure enough there was a large canvas tent stocked with cold pop ( most important ) , packages of Maggi noodle soup , candy , soap? . . 10 . Nearly tentless : The poles were in place , the tent was up , but it wasn?t fastened down when Grant moved to try to catch a photo , I turned around , and a mighty gust of wind flipped the tent three times . I managed to catch the darn thing just before it went over a 50 ? cliff ? we probably could have retrieved it but it would have been ripped to shreds ? . 11 . Memorial for our friend Mike Frastacky : At the top of the highest pass , Sengi La ( the Lion Pass ) , we hung a string of prayer flags for Mike . they re the second row from the top . He would have loved that country , and would have been really pleased that we were there , thinking of him . 12 . Tar La : We encountered the pass called Tar La on our third to last day of trekking . It is 15,900 ? but the challenge was that we were starting from 12,000 ? ( at the Dead Donkey campsite ) and would be descending to about 11,000 ? . As Grant said , it was like doing the hike to the Lions ( in Vancouver ) but starting at the top of Mt . Robson . About 500 ? from the top it started to rain , and by the time we he d the pass it was pouring , the clouds were so low we could hardly see the trail , it was freezing , and we were soaked through , having not brought our usual gear ( getting cocky with all the passes ? It had been a hot clear night before?. ) . Of all the situations in our trek , this was the one that could have gone most wrong.we decided to wait for the others and as we were descending a little way to find shelter , the rain stopped and we were actually able to start drying out . The visibility improved , the rest of our crew and the horses arrived , and we headed down the valley in fine spirits.the rain continued intermittently ; this was our only really wet day ( and who knew that it could rain so hard in Ladakh??!! ) . So wet ? our packs were soaked , including Grant?s travellers ? cheques , plane ticket , headlamp and camera bag ? When we were stopped for a quick lunch at a break in the downpour , we heard a muffled roar and turned to see a dry riverbed become a flash flood of muddy water . It changed the colour of the entire river when it merged , and did nt clear until an hour later . Wish we 'd got a picture of that ! 13 . Hospital visit : I got a bad bout of gastritis poisoning my first night in Ladakh ( from a meal in Delhi or on the plane ) and ended up visiting the hospital in Leh the next morning to get an injection of Ondansetron to stop the vomiting . Although I did nt see the ? foreigners ? ward ? , there were pretty basic facilities : they d run out of nasal prongs for the oxygen so I had to hold the blunt end of the tubing up to my nose , they opened the valve on the O2 tank with a crescent wrench and a rock , and then used the crescent wrench to break open the vial of medicine . The doctor did a thorough assessment though , had a really nice manner , and was very interesting to talk to about local health care ( seeing a rise in ? rich man?s diseases ? like diabetes , stress and hypertension ) . Here she is with me and my little bucket 14 . Culinary experiences : After that first bout , the food was great . we 'd both lost our appetites as an effect of the high altitude , but what was provided by Gopal on our trek was more varied and adventurous than I cook at home . On two occasions , Dorjay he d the local people near our campsite and came up with ( 1 ) fresh yak curd ( like yogurt ) ( the yaks were right there up the hill ) and ( 2 ) fresh goat meat ( we had an amazing goat stew ) . Despite sitting on the ground in the cook tent for our meals , we had our food elegantly presented ? see the he s shaped like butterflies , carrots like periwinkles , and we had swirling cucumbers and tomato roses as well ! Gopal made us a ? happy Ending Trek ? cake for our last dinner together ? Grant enjoyed butter tea at the he d monastery , and added tsampa ( roasted barley powder ) to it just like a local when offered at the nunnery ( all too salty , oily , and pasty for me! ) . 15 . Nunnery : There are nt many nunneries in Ladakh ( compared to monasteries ) but we visited one in Lingshed . We happened to I ve just before lunch and they offered to share their meal with us ? had a great lunch of rice and dhal ( and Grant had the butter tea ) . Quite a few novices , as young as about 8 , and they all seemed in good spirits ( giggling among themselves ) 16 . Spiritual enrichment : The monasteries in Ladakh are living examples of the ancient traditions of Tibetan Buddhism , which most Ladakhis practise . Unlike in Tibet , these monasteries are intact , some dating back to the 11th century , many from the 14th to 16th , and most of the ones we visited are still very active , with many families still designating one son to become a monk . The statues , frescoes , wall hangings and other decorations are colourful , elaborate , I ve and emotionally powerful . We attended a meditation session in he d with the monks reading the prayers , chanting , drumming and ringing bells , with a very young monk continually filling their saucers with butter tea . On our last full day in Ladakh we were very fortunate to be able to go to a traditional festival in Hemis of masked dancing monks , accompanied by the Tibetan long horns , cymbals , shawms and drums . Alchi , he d in the 11th century , is a unique monastery in terms of the style of its art , and it was also a favourite . The men with us on the trek considered Buddhism a core element in their lives . We had a funny communication with Dorjay , who said ? dawa [ our Tibetan horseman ] always says ? om mani padme hum ? [ the most common Tibetan prayer ] and has a beer before he sets out on a trek . ? We said , ? a beer ? You mean like chang [ the local beer ) , or a bottle of beer?? ? ? ? no , no , a beer ! ? ? you mean chang? ? ? Finally we figured out that Dorjay was saying ? preer ? ( ? prayer?)! ! ! Ooooohhhhh? . . 17 . Dodgy Delhi : When we flew back to Delhi from Leh , we hit the monsoon season of 40 degrees and humidity like a sauna . With that , the noise , the pollution , the insane traffic , the unbelievable numbers of people , and the abject poverty that is everywhere , we just wanted to get out of the city as quickly as possible . The traffic is absolute chaos : you might see two auto - rickshaws ( 3 - wheeled tuk - tuks ) , a motorcycle with a family of 5 on it , and a truck , all squeezed into two lanes going in the same direction , blaring their horns trying to weave through the steady stream of vehicles . On the highway , we saw cows , a camel pulling a cart , a cyclist in the rain with a plastic bag over his entire head and face , a truck coming towards us in our lane in the wrong direction , people hanging out the back of vans ? . Ahead of time , we had planned to escape by hopping on a train to Bharatpur , a city about 200 km south of Delhi where there is a world - renowned bird sanctuary . But getting a train ticket was impossible ! People told us there were nt trains , they left from different stations , they were all booked up , even at the train station they waved us off to another line , closed their wicket and would nt answer even a single question . We were directed by official - looking people to take a taxi to ? the Tourist Office ? ( there are dozens of them around the train station , so this or that one was probably owned by a relative ) , where they tried to sell us taxi - driven packages to the Taj Mahal ? Exasperating ! ! Finally we just gave in ; got a taxi to Bharatpur for $ 125 Us ? and a train ticket back for $ 5 for the two of us ! ! ( and the train was great ? direct , only 3 hours , comfy seats , 34 fans in each coach ? ) I think a lot of the discomfort with the Delhi situation is the guilt about knowing you have so much , when the people there are living at an incredibly low standard with no opportunity for advancement , and there s so little you can do about it . I can understand that people try to take advantage of you because it d's their only chance . But apparently Delhi is known particularly for being ? dodgy ? , and we can vouch for it ! [ delhi was too insane to even take pictures ] . But the bird sanctuary was a relief ( despite being in its low season , we saw 64 species ) , though the heat was almost unbearable . We had a really incredible experience in Ladakh , from the stunning scenery , to the interactions with the Ladakhi people , to the spirituality of the mountains and the monasteries . We would have stayed longer if we could , and would go back anytime . thanks for sharing our stories !
3  The prospect of a weekend away can sometimes fill you with dread at the thought of how much money you 'll spend whilst on your retreat . Fortunately , for those on a budget , it does n't have to break the bank , with many city breaks offering a multitude of affordable hotels , . . . [ click to read More.. . ] Although we may not still physically be on holidays , our writing abilities are still gorging themselves on baguettes in Europe . While we await their return , check out my post on the G Adventures blog where I explain our tips for staying on budget in . . . [ click to read More.. . ] Its been over a year and a half since our backpacks were strapped on our backs and we were shuffling from guesthouse to guesthouse . It has been very quiet lately on aroundtheworldonatoilet.com , but it has n't been so with our lives . Since being home Lianna had been working . . . [ click to read More.. . ] We 've been back home for a while now , and are back into an everyday routine . Having both found employment , there are no immediate plans for another multi - month trip , but we do find ourselves constantly looking back on the last year with no regrets and memories which will . . . [ click to read More.. . ] Italy is a diverse place . While the south may be known for its he s and emerald water when the flurries begin to fly , tourists flock to the Northern mountains , as skiing in Italy is some of the best Europe can offer . Ski holidays in Italy are not a new thing , . . . [ click to read More.. . ] Sometimes we are asked how we feel about cruise type vacations and to be honest , neither Lianna nor I have had the chance to go on one . For those interested in cruise holidays we have a guest post detailing the different options and concerns a traveler should have when . . . [ click to read More.. . ] Of all the lists describing the great culinary countries , you would be hard pressed to ever come across one that include Canada . While pasta is synonymous with Italy , rich creamy sauces with the French , Canada has.. . . maple syrup ? Thankfully this is not the case and one . . . [ click to read More.. . ] The daily grind was starting to feel endless . I could n't believe it had been almost a year since we 'd been back from our last trip , and I had n't been away for longer than 2 days since . We had less than a week available for holidays , so we looked at our options within a . . . [ click to read More.. . ] Lianna Advertising Around the World on a Toilet is a quickly growing blog that has followers from around the world , from many demographics . We have a unique style of travel writing focusing on a variety of locations from the most popular to the most far flung corners of the world , coupled with a large volume of high quality images in each post . We would be happy to discuss advertising for your company and would love to hear from you so as to go through any details of the agreement .
3  Post navigation return to the amazon After a month on the beach in Rio , it was finally time for us to pull up stakes and head north , to the 400 - year old city of Belem near the mouth of the Amazon River . We really loved Rio and have many , many more stories to tell , it was n't all just fun on the beach ! We visited the official Carmen Miranda museum ( ironically , for such a flamboyant actor , it is located in a virtually unmarked and non - descript concrete bunker , plunked in the middle of a desolate strip of old parkland , hardly visible to the three lanes of highway traffic zooming by on two sides ) . Fascinating historic information , film clips , and costumes inside . We also visited several museums and art galleries , including the famous Oscar Niemeyer - designed " spaceship " art gallery in Niteroi ( awesome building , less than awesome art inside ) , and we discovered a pedestrian - only souk ( market ) just north of the downtown core . We climbed small hills to look out from old forts , and took the train up to the top of Corcovado and stood in the shadow of Cristo Redentor . The concrete figure is perhaps the most well - known landmark in all of South America ; it certainly enjoys the best view of the city one can imagine . We also took in the national museum , the museum of modern art , a cultural centre downtown with a Salvador Dali exhibition ( works based on the Divine Comedies ) and an exhibition of illustrations and designs by Argentine cartoonist Linears , and another arts centre with several floors of photo - based exhibitions , and more - rio is a big city with lots to do . We also did a one - day trip to Angra dos Reis for a boat cruise through coastal islands . It was not much of a cruise , too crowded , a lame itinerary , and a long bus ride there and back . Not recommended . Of course we sampled more than a few bars and botequims - very small bars where most of the clientele is seated in plastic chairs on the sidewalk , or standing - glued to televised futbol matches , or talking loudly ( we noticed the men and women here have Big voices ) . We mostly avoided gringo bars - they often charge as much as the equivalent of $ 15 Us just to enter - more than our entire beer budget for the night . Having said that , one late afternoon we had been walking along the beach and stopped in at a gringo bar that not only did not charge admission , but was offering free happy hour snacks . We sat at a table away from the entrance , next to a table of young women , one of whom introduced the group as students . Later when I went to visit the restroom , they asked Deborah if we were interested in taking one of them home ! Deborah gently turned down the offer , and they apologized for saying anything . When I returned and Deborah told me what happened , we then realized there were a lot of women in the bar , and we he d as men came in and the women would take turns offering their services - like you would see in the saloon in old westerns . One last remembrance of Rio for now : we were lying on the beach , soaking up the 29 degree Celsius sunshine , when Deborah noticed something in the water about 100 feet out or so . We he d for a few minutes ; others were also starting to take notice . Was it a shark ? A sea turtle ? It came closer , and then we could tell for sure - a penguin ! We had travelled all the way to the very southern tip of South America to see penguins , and here one was splashing about at Copacabana Beach ! We scooted up the Brazilian coast to Belem on Friday , and on Saturday did a 6 - hour boat cruise to get ourselves near the mouth of the Amazon River . The water was surprisingly warm ( well , surprising to us , anyway ) , fast moving , and very green - no underwater visibility at all . After a dip in the river it was time for lunch - and just as we got into line the wind picked up , the clouds moved in , and within minutes there was a tropical thundershower that dumped more water on us in 15 or 20 minutes than a whole day of rain in Vancouver . It was quite amazing , the clouds moved on , there was a bit of sunshine , then the process repeated itself an hour later with another deluge . During the following break , we made a run for the boat ( docked 20 minutes away ) because sure enough , we were in for one more cycle of thunder and rain before getting back to the city . Belem is a large city with a population approaching two million - and quite a skyline as you 'll see below . Oil tankers wait in a long row along the river opposite the city , it happened that a large group of fellow passengers were in the marine shipping business - we 've never seen so many people get so excited every time we passed a tanker or other freighter . Oh by the way , the most common question we got from the Brazilians on board ( there were no other non - brazilians on the cruise , even though there were at least 100 passengers ) , was " what are you doing here ? " - apparently not many foreign tourists bother visiting this isolated outpost . We were an oddity , and some fellow passengers even asked to have their pictures taken with us ! At the end of the day , we headed for a brewpub we discovered the night before , the Amazon Beer bar and restaurant . A brewpub overlooking the Amazon River - how amazing is that ! The timing was also good ; as the first round arrived , one more cloudburst soaked everything it sight so it was just as well we were under a very I ve patio roof . Last night we moved again , this time to Manaus , another isolated city of 2 - million but 1500 km upriver . We 're here to do a six - day boat ride that takes in the junction of Rio Amazonas and Rio Negro , at the very heart of the Amazon as they say , complete with canoe excursions and rainforest walks , so we 'll be out of internet range for about a week . A happy long weekend to our fellow Canadians ! Cristo Redentor , Rio Cristo 's view Hanging out with Cristo Aquaducts - the train that used to ride along the top was shut down when six passengers were killed in a crash
3  " solitude shows us what we should be - society shows us what we are " - lord Cecil I was often asked if I traveled " the Way " alone or with a group . I found this question to be intriguing as you are never really alone while walking the Camino de Santiago . While I started to walk the Camino alone , I found myself walking with others throughout the day and was rarely alone . We walked , we talked - there were stories and peels of laughter . At times there were even tears ! There were times where language barriers meant that stories were not really understood , but we got by . I was never really alone . While I loved the strong community of pilgrims in the evening , I also craved some solitude - some time to think as I walked the way of so many before me ! I had a purpose - to think and re - evaluate my life and the direction it was taking . This was , after all , a transition zone for me . Leaving Leon rather late in the morning , I he d the chance to walk alone , quietly lost in my thoughts , stopping at the Plaza San Marcos to explore the Monastery and to sneak a peek inside the historic Parador Hotel ( a Spanish hotel chain with historical links to the Camino de Santiago ) . With the urban sprawl outside of Leon , I knew there would be plenty of coffee shops along the way to catch up with others , sharing some stories and a laugh , before heading out along the trail to Villar de Mazariffe , or so I thought ! While there were plenty of cafes and bars , there were also plenty of conflicting arrows and directions along the route and I found myself heading along the dry Senda to Villadangos del Paramo . The stretch of road was uninspiring and my delightful solitude soon turned to boredom as I found myself craving company yet again . I was so relieved to catch up to a fellow I m up the road and slowed my pace so we could walk and talk together . We finally arrived at the Municipal Albergue - my feet were tired and I was relieved to find a bed for the night and a hot shower to wash off the dust from the road . It turned out that the Albergue was a bit of a disaster ( no toilet paper and my first introduction to the dreaded bed bugs ) , but it did provide an opportunity to cook dinner for the evening . ( while there were many cooking opportunities along the way , I mostly chose to eat the I m dinners in the various towns along the route . ) My new walking partner and I walked into town to pick up a variety of colourful vegetables to cook up that evening . The kitchen and communal dining table were the heart and soul of the albergue - with wine and laughter flowing . Smells of foods from around the world filled the air and we dined like kings and queens for a night . This was just another example of the many things I loved on the Camino de Santiago - the opportunity for times of solitude and companionship during the day , and such a strong sense of community at night . You are never really alone along the Camino de Santiago ! Love it ? Share it ! Like this : About Anita Mac I have been fortunate enough to travel a considerable distance over the years . My love of many things , including travel , cycling and photography fit together like hand and glove , and the ability to continue to learn , to share and to laugh make for me , a more fulfilling life . I am happy to share my travels and photography through my blogs : http : and http : Hope you enjoy them as much as I do ! You are so right - the balance - sometimes I could hardly walk for all the photos I was taking as the beauty of the area was overwhelming ! The bed bugs were a harsh reality and very tough for me to deal with mentally . It took a while to recover from that one but the reality is , they are out there ! So many people had been bitten - the test is in how you deal with it ! I hope I came out well on the other side , although there were some tough moments ! ! It is all part of the journey - still so happy to have taken it on ! I 'm not generally a fan of walking , but after trekking in Nepal I 've come to see the appeal a bit more . And I have a friend who walked the Camino de Santiago recently and he can n't stop raving about it . Oh no , no thanks , you were welcome . It was more than a pleasure to walk with you on the second and third day of my Camino . You gave me a good start . I simply walked after Estella , hoping your feet would recover , and enjoyed both the good company of me and myself , and after all that was why I started , and the many fellow pelgrims I met on the way showing me the many ways to undergo the Santiago experience . At 20 plus kilometers a day , I endured sun , sometimes a drizzle and cold mountains , passed through I ve landscapes , beautiful towns and cities and collected my Compostela on October 6th . Since the middl;e of October I 'm trying to bring all those steps and albergues and exchanges and lessons I received together in a booklet . I 'm glad I took the long walk , I do n't know what it exactly did to me , but I owe the Way a lot.and returned home feeling good , confident and full of energy .
3  What 's it like to go backpacking in Myanmar ? The country ( formerly known as Burma , and still referred to as that in the west ) has been pretty much he d by tourism since a military coup 20 years ago , but visits have been picking up since a new government was elected in 2010 and visa restrictions relaxed in 2011 . 1 . What challenges do you face as a traveller in Myanmar ? How have you overcome them ? Currently , there are no Atms that take foreign cards in Myanmar . This means that you need to bring all of your money into the country , in cash . Fresh , crisp Usd is best , though Sgd and Euro are also becoming more accepted here for payment and exchange . The biggest challenge people face here is a lack of planning . Through most of Se Asia , the supply of hostels and guesthouses far exceeds demand , so flexible schedules and just ' showing up ' is the norm . This is just not possible in the same way here . Supply of guesthouses for foreigners is quickly becoming far less than necessary . Booking in advance is typically done by phone , from your guesthouse , or by purchasing your own Sim card ( there is currently no roaming for out of country Sim cards ) . See Dustin 's post on technology available in Myanmar for more mobile , internet and power information . C . Dustin Main 2 . How easy has travel around the country and getting in been ? The vast majority of travellers to Myanmar will fly in to Yangon or Mandalay , often via Bangkok or Kuala Lumpur , though many airlines are adding flights into the country for 2013 . See hostels in Yangon ( starting from _9.70 @ Ocean Pearl Inn ) Inside the country , travel by bus and train can be quite tiresome . Roads are poor , and the trains are slow and bouncy ( think of a 10hr roller coaster ) . Buses and trains work at odd hours , so be sure to ask . It is not unusual to I ve at your destination at 4am . The most comfortable ( and fastest ) way to travel around is by airplane , but keep in mind that you will likely need to buy those flights while in country ( not online ) . Travel should be booked at least a day or two in advance . 3 . What impact has the political situation made on your travels , if any ? Until relatively recently , it was off limits to talk about the political situation here , and I would still recommend travellers exercise caution . You would n't want to put someone in a situation where they may get into trouble . If you are interested in talking politics , take your time and let a local bring it up . The political situation here means that many areas of the country are off limits to tourism . This is due to a few reasons , but mostly due to a lack of infrastructure for tourism in those parts . There are also on - going he s in the country , and certain areas ( often the border regions ) are off limits do to this . Issues like this mean that you will have to fly in and fly out of the country . Crossing a border into the country by land ( into the middle of the country ) is not possible without first obtaining permission . C . Dustin Main 4 . Do locals call it Burma or Myanmar ? The vast majority of locals refer to the country as Myanmar . The name change happened about 20 years ago , so many people do n't know any different . They also refer to the language as " myanmar language " and not Burmese as we in the west often do . 5 . What 's been your experience of locals ' reactions to tourists ? Since tourism has been quite limited until recently , tourists have been few and far between , are often a welcome part of life here in Myanmar . It 's not unusual to be invited in for tea , or if you 're really fortunate , a meal to share . That said , in the hopes of keeping it that way , be sure to treat the Myanmar people with respect as you travel around their land . In doing so , hopefully they will n't be tainted by bad experience with rude tourists . C . Dustin Main 6 . Where have you stayed in Myanmar so far , and what have the places been like ? I have been to the South ( mawlamyine , Hpa - an ) , West ( sittwe , Mrauk - u ) , East ( lasio , Hsipaw , Pyin Oo Lwin , Kalaw , Nyuangshwe , Tachileik ) , and the former capital , Yangon . Expect to pay more than other neighbouring countries in Se Asia , and for lower quality accommodation . I highly recommend you book in advance . The rush of foreigners has left the limited infrastructure struggling to keep up . Even in the quieter rainy and ' hot ' seasons , it is becoming difficult to find a place to stay , and local officials have had to stick foreigners into local monasteries to sleep when accommodation has n't been available . 7 . What have been your favourite things to see and do so far ? My favourite thing to do here is not plan . When you do n't plan too much for the day , you invite all of the awesome things that this country has to come to you . Do n't stuff your days with a to - do list , but go with the flow and see what opportunities present themselves . More so than any other country , you 'll have a much richer and more memorable experience this way . Besides that hunk of advice for travel in Myanmar , trekking to hill - tribe villages in the Shan foothills has been one of my highlights , as well as the exciting fish market in Sittwe . Read about Dustin 's adventures in Dala . C . Dustin Main 8 . What things about Myanmar have surprised you most ? Myanmar is a special place , and one that is changing rapidly . Strange government rules and stiff sanctions from the rest of the world have meant that it seems like an entirely different world from nearby Thailand . Many locations off the main tourist track can be enjoyed nearly devoid of other tourists . What people should come here for are the people . Relatively he d by tourism , the people are absolutely genuine . Many places you travel , it would be hard to know that they have lived separated from much of the rest of the world these past few years . 9 . What benefits are there to travelling in Myanmar ? Travelling to Myanmar now means you have a chance to savour it all before the mounds of tourists come in . Years of sanctions by the west , and a tourism boycott led by Aung San Suu Kyi 's Nld party , had left the country relatively he d by foreigners . With a shift in government policy , tourism is quickly picking up , and now is your chance to get in before the crowds I ve 1 Comments For This Post It may not be the cheapest method of getting around Myanmar but we found hiring a driver worked the best for us.we were there Jan - march 2012 for the 28 allowable days . We did not go in with others but it would be possible . You pay a set amount - around $ 100us a day which covers all costs including the driver 's accommodation . Your own accommodation and meals are over and above this of course....but again , he knew some good places to stop . The roads are terrible in parts , but it was relatively comfortable . Personally I think you see a lot more than by plane or even bus probably , the driver can book ahead and seemed to get some good deals on accommodation . Flying between cities is not really " seeing " the country in my view . Seeing locals at work and play in their everyday lives , is " seeing " a country . You cannot hire a car in Myanmar and I can understand why when you see the roads , the toll system etc . This gives a flexibility you do n't get with bus and I understand the trains really are not recommended . Leave a Reply Name ( required ) Mail ( will not be published ) ( required ) Wordpress Hashcash needs javascript to work , but your browser has javascript disabled . your comment will be queued in akismet !
3  According to legend , the owner of a cake shop decided to experiment with the popular steamed bread he sold in the nearby Guyi Gardens in 1871 . The result is what we know today as the delicate , pleated dumpling with the delectable soupy interior . Start your tour with xiaolongbao 's original home , the Guyi Garden Restaurant , where they still dish out steaming dumplings by the dozen . If you 're still craving another soupy dumpling , wander around the corner to Gulong . At this 100 - year - old shop , you can watch women crafting the dumplings by hand . Afterward , work off all that dough with a stroll through the flower - filled Guyi Garden ( entrance Rmb 12 ) . How to get there : Take Metro Line 11 to Nanxiang Station . Just outside the metro station , take bus No . 2 to the first stop , which pulls over right outside the garden . Or , take a Rmb - 14 taxi ride from the metro station . Shanghai day trip 2 : Tongli Tongli is like any other water town surrounding Shanghai with one big exception - it 's the home of the Museum of Ancient Chinese Sex Culture ( entrance Rmb 20 ) . The 7,000 - square - meter museum displays the collection of Shanghainese p rofessor and sociologist Liu Dalin ( ? ? ? ) and is set on the grounds of a former girls ' school with manicured gardens - a perfect place to showcase its outrageously phallic sculptures . Inside the halls , captions in English and Chinese offer some historical context on more than 1,000 pieces of pottery , artwork and , uh , handheld devices . The oldest exhibits date back 8,000 years . Combine a visit to the museum with a stroll through the Old Town 's ( entrance Rmb 80 ) canal - laced streets where locals fish with cormorants and wash their he s in the waterways . How to get there : Tour buses leave daily at 8:30 a.m . from the Shanghai Tourist Distribution Center at Shanghai Stadium for Rmb 130 round - trip . The trip takes 90 minutes each way and returns in the late afternoon . Alternatively , take a train to Suzhou and then a local bus into Tongli . Shanghai day trip 3 : Chongming Island In Shanghai , a large number of taxi drivers hail from Chongming and they always say the air is cleaner in their nearby island home . We tend to agree with them . At Dongtan National Nature Reserve , peruse the park from boardwalks suspended over the wetlands . Watch as locals try to catch the tiny crabs scurrying around the salt water marshes , and keep your eyes open for migrating birds . Afterward , Dongping National Forest Park is a great place to rent a bike and cruise through the plentiful , flat paths that trace through the trees . Once you get out of the main walking areas , the crowds disappear . Bring a lunch and stop in one of the gazebos to refuel . Or , take bus Shen Chong ( ? ? ? ? ) from Shanghai North Long Distance Bus Station and head directly to Chongming Island for Rmb 12 . From Nanmen town , you can navigate time - consuming local bus lines or hire a taxi to I ve you around the island .
3  our journey around the world Chobe National Park : up close and personal with elephants When we arrived in Kasane we were somewhat let down to see that our chosen accommodation was n't very nice at all . Fair enough , we were camping , but the grounds definitely left something to be desired . There was no self - catering option whatsoever , no communal areas to hang out at besides a few picnic tables , and generally lacking facilities . For the equivalent of almost 25dollars a night we were n't very happy . To make matters worse , it was boiling hot that day and our initial campsite had no trees or shady spots to shelter our tent from the blazing sun . Ugh . Although we were eventually able to move our tent beneath a tree let us just say that it was n't a very nice first day in Kasane . Luckily our second day was absolutely , positively marvelous . We were in Kasane solely to visit Chobe National Park home to roughly 50,000 elephants and many other animal species over an 11,000 acre unfenced area . We had signed up to do a morning game I ve and afternoon boat trip through our accommodation and were really excited to have another go at animal spotting . Within a few minutes of entering the park we spotted a herd of more than twenty elephants coming across the river from the Namibian side . Even though they were still quite far away at that point it was incredible to see so many elephants in one place at one time . We stopped our truck and he d as they made their way closer and closer to us until they were finally a few meters away . By this time several other trucks had crowded in to watch and we jealously gazed on as the first bunch of the herd passed within a few feet of one of the other trucks . A few moments later we noticed that one bull ( male ) elephant had broken away from the line and had turned in the direction of our truck . He stood for awhile as if to decide which trajectory to continue on when he finally turned again and headed in the same direction as the others . The next bunch of elephants coming up the line decided that they were going to go a slightly a different route and before we knew it they were meandering right towards our truck . It was beyond surreal to watch as these enormous creatures got closer and closer until they were literally a few feet away at most passing beside our truck . My heart was pounding out of my chest as they passed by and I 'm sure my jaw was hanging down to my ankles . When I quickly turned , wide - eyed to look back at Luke I saw that he was crying . It was one of the most amazing moments I have ever experienced , and I know beyond a doubt that Luke and probably everyone else on our truck would say the same . As you can see below I took as many photos as I could when they were passing by , but it was honestly difficult to maintain any sense of composure , especially when the elephants were looking right at us ! The rest of the morning I ve pretty much did n't matter to us at that point . I think we could have probably booked our tickets home to Canada and been satisfied with the whole trip just after this . But , of course , we continue on J . Although the elephants were by far the high light of the morning I ve we also saw our first wild lioness who was lazily sleeping near the side of the road doing absolutely nothing of interest , as well as hippos , crocodiles , a giraffe , warthogs , a jackal and many more species of antelope . We also saw a I ve group of vultures and other carnivorous birds crowding around eating the leftovers of a week old elephant carcass , yum ! Oh , our truck also got a flat tire at one point so I guess that was sort of interesting ? As we left the park for the morning we came upon our elephant friends once again as they he d their way through some dry brush . Even though they were a little further away this time it was still wonderful watching them . We especially loved watching the baby elephants that are pretty much the sweetest things you can imagine , so adorably awkward . Our afternoon boat trip along the Chobe River was n't as great as our morning I ve but it did allow us our first opportunity to get up close to the hippos that we had only so far spotted from a distance . I sort of imagined that they would be cuter somehow but they are really quite terrifying beasts . They seem to have the most menacing look on their faces and are absolutely huge . The first hippo our boat got close to glared at us from the water before turning his back to us and disappearing below , while his friend he d us as he he d some grass on the plain with the ubiquitous bird companion standing nearby . For some reason , every hippo has a little white bird friend who is never very far from his side . We were told by our guide that that hippo was eating on the plain because the other hippo would n't let I m into the water without a fight . We idled in our boat for awhile eager at the prospect of witnessing a hippo fight close - up , but the closest we got was a little staring contest by the water 's edge . Even when the grass - munching hippo quietly slipped into the water his nemesis was nowhere to be found . Sadly we had to move on from our hippo friends and nothing much more exciting happened for the duration of our cruise . We spotted more hippos , crocs , buffaloes and elephants , but our hippo standoff was as exciting as it got . Thoroughly satisfied with our Chobe National Park experience , we booked our bus tickets to Livingstone in Zambia where we were off to see the mighty Victoria Falls . Awesome pictures you guys . What a fabulous experience - to get so close to those magnificent animals . That croc looked huge ! ! Love the new blog site - so much better . We wish you continued safe travels . uncle paul & auntie lynn
3  Recent Post Blogroll Day 71 Olkhon Island to Day 74 Ulan Ude Posted by admin | Posted on 15 - 08 - 2012 | 1 Comments Day71 - to Olkhon Island August 10 , 2012 The scenery of the adjacent mainland from Irkutsk , and of Olkhon Island itself , is most unusual , resembling Mongolia . We are deep in what was Buryatia , the religion here is shamanic , there are spiritual totem poles everywhere , officially set up , with many offerings of money and cigarettes left there by a superstitious public . We have to get used to this , as Mongolia is like this too - a unique culture . Now we have to waste two days while the Mongolians set our visas up . So we drove today to Olkhon Island , which sticks out halfway up the west bank of Lake Baikal . I did not see the lake from Irkutsk , so at the ferry terminal I got my first sight of water since the Mediterranean ! The road on the island is dirt , and we had to I ve carefully ( so only one or two riders fell off ) . As we will see in Mongolia , the lesser ' roads ' are just tracks in the dirt , often duplicated ; here 's the road into a little lakeside village : When we got to the main town , Khuzhir , we were very tired , what with the ride on the mainland , the hour - long wait for the ferry and associated hassles , and the dirt road , all in the heat and dust ; so now here 's one of us taking it easy [ Lake Baikal is Big and Deep - the deepest lake in the world . We camped just outside Khuzhir , halfway along the island - it looks like a Wild West town , dust blowing across the very wide dirt street : We rode 30km out of town and chose a small promontory at the edge of the lake , actually it 's the lesser part of the lake , between the island and the mainland , but the views were very impressive : One of the bikes was noted to have a tyre problem ; the intruding item was simply unscrewed , and a ' mushroom ' plug easily inserted , which he d the hole perfectly : We made a camp fire ; only big trunks of wood were available , nevertheless we got it going and a mighty blaze roared up . To control it , we poured water over some of the logs . . . now , water can be in short supply at our camps , so someone asked permission to use 5 litres for this purpose . It was pointed out that we were camping 10 metres away from 20 % of the World 's Entire Supply of fresh water . The lake has its own fish , birds and a species of seal , all found nowhere else . We spent a lot of time gazing over it . Lake Baikal , eh . Who would have believed that we would be here ? Had a wonderful evening meal - rissoles and stir - fry cabbage , I know it does not sound much , but it was really good tucker , and in any case it was improved still further by a large amount of vodka . We built the fire up and talked around it , as the evening came on . Now although *i* camp 50 feet away from all the others , tonight I could hear someone else snoring , so tonight I must set out and see who it is . . . then the two of us could have a snore - off , judged by everyone else . Day72 - lake Baikal August 11 , 2012 We had a free day at Olkhon Island , in Lake Baikal . With all the riding , I can keep going day by day but I find myself very tired on the free days . Others evidently feel similar , as nobody did much this day . With no wind , the surface of the lake had a curious patchy appearance : A couple of guys went off to where they got their bikes stuck in the sand yesterday , and unstuck them . Others mostly sat around the camp fire and talked , looking at the view . We were camping on top of a cliff and Millsy rode his bike perilously near the edge , or perhaps I am just being neurotic . Later he felt a need to climb a tree to improve the view of the lake : A car , stuck in the sand at the bottom of an impossible climb back out , provided us with a free show for a while : Ho hum , what a nice day . Then the island was attacked by a killer tree : A bird flew idly by . It could not be a seagull , as here we were almost as far inland as it is possible to get in the world ; so it must have evolved from the primordial slime to become a species unique to Lake Baikal : [ The most common fish in Lake Baikal is the Omul , found nowhere else . In the late morning I drove into Khuzhir , bought a lunch and wrote entries for this blog , which I was able to post when I got back to Irkutsk . Very laid back town , but it is a holiday destination . For my lunch the waitress brought an Omul fish . Beautiful firm , white flesh , and the fish was pretty good too . In the late afternoon I returned to camp where a couple of guys helped me adjust the tension of my bike 's I ve chain . Ye gods , it was very slack - we had to I ve it 3 full turns of the adjusting screw . I will need to replace it soon , but let us see how it wears for now . I have a spare chain and spare front and rear sprockets . Day73 - irkutsk again August 11 , 2012 A pretty dull day , livened up by having a nice hotel at the end of it . We packed up our camp at Olkhon Island and rode the 30 - km sandy road back to the ferry . Here we had a two - hour wait , and even that was shorter than it should have been because we were allowed to skip the queue . Fair enough , as with some thought , motorbikes can be packed in along the sides of a ferry without taking up any room for cars , although the ferry crew did not bother to pack us in , and just made two cars wait for the next ferry . There are two boats , and the crossing takes half an hour but they I ve and leave side - by - side together , causing chaos at the terminal and making half the cars wait half an hour extra . The boats also stood empty for 15 minutes before any cars were loaded - i got the impression that the crews are not paid according to performance . We had a lunch & coffee while waiting . And another coffee . All the way back to Irkutsk my Gps unit failed . Sometimes it fails to start up , and all you can do is re - boot it , whereupon it may then work , or ( as today ) it fails to start again . I found out that starting it Off the bike usually works , but not today , so I had to ride into Irkutsk without it , and on arrival I promptly got lost in a ghastly part of the city . I did come across this nice old church on my random wanderings : Fortunately , after about 40 tries I got the damn Gps to work and I could then use it to find my hotel . Even near the hotel , there is a one - way system and " you cannot get there from here " . But I finally got to it and checked in , and decided to wash all my riding clothes , which were choked with the dust of many days . I simply took off the boots ( which I he d separately ) and stood in the shower in full riding gear , peeling off the helmet , gloves , jacket , trousers , underpants and socks as I went . The water came out black , and it took three showers and then putting the plug in and stomping on the he s in the bath to actually get them clean . The afternoon was sunny and the he s mostly dried out quickly , but the trouser legs and the jacket sleeves ( made of very heavy material in many layers , to protect you when you all off ) ) were still wet the next morning - but never mind , they dry out as you ride . Later I went out to get this iconic photo of the city memorial ( of an unnamed typical pioneer of the region , circa 1700 ) opposite the curiously painted old church : At the bridge where I stood , people have painted messages to their girl friends on the pavement : Here there is an I ve 1941 - 45 War Memorial , with fresh wreaths . Even out here in Irkutsk , the Great Patriotic War is still a very big deal : But here also , is a statue of Saints Peter and ( another ) , cast and erected in 2011 : And this old Orthodox church , the oldest stone buidling in Siberia , was restored from 1993 - 2006 and " returned to the believers " - there was a service going on when we visited , and from the noticeboard inside , there is clearly a vibrant community of many thousands of people around this church : Over the road , for a better view of the old church , unused but restored and painted in unusual colours : And finally , the cute old railway station . I include this because nearly all visitors to Irkutsk come by train ; it is a major stop on the trans - siberian Express : day74 - ulan - ude August 13 , 2012 Left Irkutsk for the second time - now we are on the main road again : Basically we have come from Novosibirsk ( although we diverted on Day 66 to avoid the city ) and onwards now to Chita ( day 89 ) , with a diversion around Mongolia for a couple of weeks ( days 75 - 87 ) . We rode southwards , passing around the southern end of Lake Baikal , where we got a beautiful view over the town of Sludjanka : Well Ok , here it is without me in the way . Some riders ( not me ) attended a big motorbike rally here on day 70 , but I valued the day off , so I did n't go . There were hundreds of spectacular bikes and riders from all over Russia . . . anyway , today , a train passed by and I got this photo of typical Siberian style wooden houses with train in background : Held up at level crossing while a long , long train of petrol rumbled by ; plenty of time for photographing Hugh . Note the raised plates in the road ! Even when there is no train , all level crossings here and in all Eastern Europe have a terribly lumpy road surface so you cannot physically I ve across them at more than walking pace . We passed through more Siberian villages as we rode up the eastern side of the lake - you cannot see the land on the other side - at a roadside stop there were stalls with women all selling the same thing - smoked Omul fish from the lake . Some also sold raspberries , and blueberries . From about here we are entering the area of shamanic religion , among other beliefs including Buddhism ( rife in Mongolia ) and Zen . For good luck , coins were seen strewn on the ground at the layby ; blue ribbons were in the tree : It was a good road , and overtaking was easy . ( the only problems we frequently encounter are traffic and potholes , and on motorbikes we easily cope with both of those ) . Hills rose to about 900 m ( lake Baikal is 464 m Osl ) . A bit of rain fell , we had to put on our rainjackets - the temp was only 14 - 18*c , but at end of the day it rose to about 25*c . The road moved away from the lakeside to go eastwards , and we passed through fir forests , then birch forest , then young birch , and finally onto bare flatlands N of Ulan - ude . The city spreads out beyond the river . We bypassed the city itself , as there is not much to see , unless you like heads of Lenin , because the world 's biggest one is here ; I copied this picture from the web : We called at a fuel station , at each bowser there was a car parked with the hose stuck in the tank , waiting for a tanker to come and deliver some petrol . Just like Uzbekistan . . . some people need to get their act together ! And this is why we stop often for petrol , after about 200 km or less ( my tank holds enough for about 320km , and the reserve will take the bike to 380 km but that is pushing your luck ) . That 's " om Mani Padme Hum " picked out in stones on a mountainside - i told you the religion was shifting as we move on . At teatime we arrived at a lovely lake ( lake Gusino ) but if the Russians can stuff the environment up , they will , so here 's the power station : We were going to camp in the forest near here , under this sign : but with much consultation of the dictionary I translated it as " attention ! During times of the fear of fire , the residence in the forest is forbidden " so we camped instead in a wide clearing , with wild flowers : and a beautiful view down to the lake . . . . and its open - cast ore mine . __________________ Comments Posted ( 1 ) nice to see someone maintaining the blog ! I have been to baikal in spring when it still had ice on it . When it shattered it broke into shards and made a sound like breaking glass . looking forward to your posts from mongolia .
3  The East Cape Road Trip The East Cape Road Trip Winter may not seem the ideal time to hire a camper van and hit the road , however , this is New Zealand and the weather gods have been good to us . Also the camper hire is much cheaper for obvious reasons . Thanks to the friendly and professional Craig & Karen of coastalcampers.co.nz for the van hire . It was now time for Dad , Zac and Mitch to hit the road on their first road trip together . We 've seen much of what the North Island has to offer , all that really remained was the East Cape . This area was at the heart of the Land Wars between the British Empire and Maori , its steeped in history and natural beauty . If you want to experience raw New Zealand , this is undoubtably where you need to go . This post is heavy on both images and thoughts , many more than I would normally include in a post but please humor me , it 's been a while . Also I 'm delighted to say it contains no less than seven Leica Fotografie International ( lfi ) Master Shots in the M9 & M Analogue formats . I suppose I should add that this was n't a photographic trip , it was father and sons spending time together and having fun , but there should be a photographic recorded of that , right?? ? ? I 'll touch on this a little more later . On Gear - this is the first occasion that I 've really had a serious dilemma around what to carry with me , a clear indication that too much choice can sometimes be a bad thing . Even before this trip was planned I had been giving thought to maybe selling some of my equipment , in fact there have been a couple of occasions recently when I 've considered selling all of it but that s a different story.......so , what to take , I wanted to keep it light and simple so I packed my bag with the following . Leica M9 - limit myself to one body 35mm Summicron f Asph - i 've never really taken to this lens , my first instinct was to take the 35 Lux but I thought I 'd maybe try out a long exposure or two , I have the adaptors to get from 39mm to 72mm for the Light Craft Workshop Nd500 so this was in . 15mm Vc Super Wide Heliar f - on the basis that its so small and light that I may as well have it with me . and then Leica M3 - what about a film option , yes I should really try to get through some film , this camera is a fairly recent acquisition so in it went . Gossen Pilot - accurate manual metering , needed for the M3 oh , and what about Leica M6 - sometimes its just a little more convenient to have built in metering.. . . and there it was , the simple lightweight bag was now packed to capacity and not so light either . Too much choice you see . On Doing the Right Thing - hopefully others amongst you will have experience of what I 'm about to say , it may be more relevant to the male photographers though . I 've already mentioned this trip was not about taking photographs , I will be the first to admit that if we 're doing something as a family and I go in to camera mode then its generally at the expense of me joining in , to be blunt multi tasking is not a facet of mine . So I took photographs only when they could be taken with the minimum of disruption to our trip , this was so , so difficult......i lost count of how many shots I drove past , arriving at a location only to be frustrated by the light , then driving away knowing full well that light would be perfect if you just hung around for another hour or so , all very difficult to do . I 've learnt that photography is in the main a selfish pursuit , one that is best undertaken alone or in the company of other togs , so it 's important to do the right thing sometimes , to engage with the kids , not the camera and most importantly to have fun . Rope Swing - leica M9 , 35mm Summicron f Asph On the 35mm Summicron f Asphi came to own this lens by default , it was with the used Leica M9 that I bought , whilst I fully expected it to be exactly what I wanted in a lens we 've never really hit it off . In actual fact its not that long ago that it was up for sale , I can say now how pleased I am that it did n't sell . I am seeing this lens in a whole new light , I could easily have managed on this trip with this lens alone . Realisation Leica M9 , 35mm Summicron f Asph Tokamaru Bay Leica M9 , 35mm Summicron f Asph Tokamaru Bay has been selected by the Editors as a Leica Fotografie International ( lfi ) Master Shot . To the Cape Leica M9 , 35mm Summicron f Asph To the Cape has been selected by the Editors as a Leica Fotografie International ( lfi ) Master Shot . On Long Exposure I 've not used the Leica M9 for long exposures before so here is the Long Exposure set - up I used on the Leica M9 : 35mm Summicron f Asph , 39 - 52 Step up ring , 52 - 72 Step up ring and 72mm Light Craft Workshop Nd500 Filter . If it sounds a bit agricultural that s because it is , sure its ugly , but it works . I have to say it always depresses me to see how dusty the sensor is despite all the precautions I take , its also very tedious removing those dust spots from the image . This was a prime example of needing to hang around just a bit longer for a more spectacular sky , still there 's always next time . Tolaga Bay - leica M9 , 35mm Summicron f Asph and Nd500 Fliter On B&w - i make no secret of my preference for B&w over colour , it just makes sense to me . An image that is " nice " in colour can be transformed by B&w processing . East Cape Horses - leica M9 , 50mm Summilux f Asph Fle East Cape Horses has been selected by the Editors as a Leica Fotografie International ( lfi ) Master Shot . Long Shadows - leica M9 , 15mm Voigtlander Super Wide Heliar f Long Shadows has been selected by the Editors as a Leica Fotografie International ( lfi ) Master Shot . On Film Having gone to the trouble of taking both the M3 and M6 with me I only actually shot the ends of the rolls already in the cameras , in the case of the M3 this was Ilford Hp5 + 400 and in the M6 I had Kodak Tmax 400 that I was pushing to Iso 1600 as part of another project . In truth I did n't need these cameras with me but I 'm happy to have these images all the same . Being totally truthful , of all these images in this post , the ones shot on film resonate with me the most , when I am more proficient with both film camera and developing I fully expect it to be my medium of choice . Campsite Capers - leica M3 , 50mm Summilux f Asph Fle Local Transport - leica M3 , 50mm Summilux f Asph Fle Beach Pose Leica M3 , 50mm Summilux f Asph Fle On Film vs . Digital - here are two images , in both digital and film , more or less the same composition , Dof is different due to the Iso of the film in the M6 and 1 sec max shutter speed . This scene is probably my favorite from the trip , I have a preference , what do you think ? End of the Road Leica M9 , 35mm Summicron f Asph End of the Road has been selected by the Editors as a Leica Fotografie International ( lfi ) Master Sho t . End of the Road has been selected by the Editors as a Leica Fotografie International ( lfi ) Master Shot . Some Final Thoughts Most importantly I managed to have a great time with my kids and to learn a couple of things about them that I did n't know before , it 's great to see their sense of humor developing , to share a joke , have a laugh and be silly together . Whats more I managed to get some decent images along the way . I will definitely be returning to the East Cape , photographically it has so much to offer . What do I feel is missing from my post ? There is no engagement with the local population , this is the land of the Maori after all , fascial tattoos ( ta Moko ) are common place , kids ride bareback horses in the streets , shoes on feet and even glass in windows are not considered necessary by many . It 's a captivating place with an intriguing and friendly population , I wish I had just been able to convey that in my images . I will return... . . As always , thanks for taking the time to read this , its appreciated . All the best , Jason . The remnants of my images of the East Cape . Misty Mornings Leica M9 , 35mm Summicron f Asph Springvale Bridge Leica M9 , 35mm Summicron f Asph he d Bones 50mm Summilux f Asph Fle The Cape 50mm Summilux f Asph Fle No Country for Old Men - leica M9 , 35mm Summicron f Asph No Country for Old Men has been selected by the Editors as a Leica Fotografie International ( lfi ) Master Shot . Share this : Great work Jason . Misty morning shot is a stunner . As for the film comparison , hmmmm , hard to say as you he d the tri - x . Would prefer to see a transparency shot to compare . To be honest I 've given up on whether I like one or the other , I like both for different reasons . One thing I do know , I get more pleasure from shooting film and a sense of satisfaction that digital has never given me Thanks Andy , that 's really satisfying coming from you . Yes I take your point , not a direct comparison . I 'm thinking now that I maybe took a shot of this with the M6 and Fuji Velvia 50....roll still in the camera . That would be interesting also , If I have I will update the post at a later date . With regards the Tmax 400 That was my first attempt at pushing it , for 2 stops I was really happy with it , you have way more experience....i may be looking for tips at some point . Cheers , Jason Great post , Jason . Love the photos . Outstanding . Liked the End of the Road in colour best . Interesting to see these as this time last year I also went round the Cape in a campervan - see my Campervan Capers album on Facebook . The kids found it very bumpy in the back though . I agree about photos and family ; a difficult balance and I had to whizz past many a scene i 'd preferred to have stopped for . My lot have endless patience with me though . Thanks Mark , I 'm finding it reassuring to hear comments on here and various social media sites that I am not alone in finding it difficult to mix the photography and family....i really enjoyed your post and I owe you a thank you because it made me realise that doing the trip in winter was n't a bad idea ! ! Cheers , Jason . Hey Jason . All fantastic images . The film images clearly knock the digital ones out of the park . No comparison...the tones , bokeh etc . on film convey such a wonderful feeling that digital can never match . And Jason your film exposures and development are spot on so there is no need to wait...shoot more film ! You are really good at it : ) Thanks my friend , spoken like a true purist ! ! You should check out Andy 's film work he is very much a film man . I 've 'd several different types B&w of film delivered in the last fortnight so I am going to be pushing ahead and experimenting . The future is film....; - ) You know what works for me with the End of the Road shot ? It 's the contrast between the blue sky and yellow stripe on the tarmac background - i would love to see a Velvia comparison , just for the sheer nerd factor of it all lol What appeals in an image is not always obvious , to me anyway . Having given some thought to what you 've said here in relation to the contrast between the blue sky and the yellow stripe I think you 're spot on . Re : the Velvia comparison we are clearly a pair of nerds...; - ) Jason what a wonderful post . I could n't stop reading the I ve in between all these amazing images . Excellent work , excellent processing , inspirational , I 'd love to visit now , and what a great opportunity to really bond with your children , I 'm sure it was an unforgettable experience for all of you . Hi Jorge , I really appreciate you taking the time to visit this blog and comment , thanks for the kind words . I will just add that anyone reading this who is not familiar with Jorge 's work would do well to take a look . Cheers Jason Beautiful work , my friend . The film shots are spectacular , but I 'm loving all of your images here . I do n't know which image I 'd pick for " end of the road". . . but I 'm leaning towards the M9 one for the colour . I see you 've acquired much of the gear I 'm using , but the big surprise for me was the 35 ' cron . I really do think you could have shot the entire trip with just this lens. . . the images speak for themselves...wow . Firstly can I say it 's always immensely satisfying to know you 've visited this blog , your words and encouragement are greatly appreciated . " end of the Road " , yes the consensus seems to be the M9 colour image , although I fully expected my opinion to have changed by now . I have indeed collected much of the same equipment , having been able to make educated decisions thanks to your website...the 35 cron was the star of the show really , had I just taken that I would not have even given a thought to the other lenses . Great images and priceless time with your kids . " road Ends " is a tremendous image . I prefer the B&w one . How about a square crop ( i 'm an old Hasselblad shooter ) ? " no Country for Old Men " , besides being a tremendous movie , you 've created a wonderful image . Love the Dof ! Remindes me of an area we vacation . Does the M9 look this good naturally in B&w mode or do you have to do a lot of massaging ? Thanks John , the square crop would work well for the image . I 'm a new Hasselblad shooter , having just bought myself a 500c and various Zeiss lenses . Hopefully we 'll see some Medium Format shots on this blog in the future ! ! I have a rule about post processing , and that is to keep the time spent on each Raw file to a maximum of 5 mins . I 've recently been playing with the B&w . jpg 's the M9 can produce , they are rich and quite beautiful . Thanks again for the kind words . This brings back such memories , I have toured this area many times , drove around a few years ago on my return to Aotearoa after 43 years in the New World . Unfortunately I lost all the images I captured and now , with mnd , cannot explore as I once did now I will depend on you and others to transport me , many thanks . By the way , that road to nowhere , you sure that 's the east cape ? Looks like the road to Palliser . Ignore my pickiness Hi Richard , Thanks I 'm pleased it evoked some good memories . That is such a shame about your images , I also suffered a big loss of images about 18 months ago so I know how gut wrenching it is......the East Cape is such an amazing place , I plan on getting back there in the summer . I 've just had to Google Palliser , ( cape Palliser? ? ) I have never been there but I certainly will try to get the next time we are in Wellington . The End of the Road image was taken on the Pacific Coast Highway Close To The Mahia Peninsular  Cheers Jason 
3  Search This Blog : The Adventure Anyone want to be the first to go heli - bouldering in Canada ? Bouldering is the latest rage in mountain sport . For one , it does n't take much gear or experience , just a desire to climb , a pair of climbing shoes , and a pad ; yet it provides a yoga - like zen and as much challenge as anyone could ask for without quite as much risk as the more high altitude or high I ve hazard genres of mountaineering . And second , while most of the world 's most spectacular peaks have been climbed , there are literally millions of spectacular boulders scattered around the globe that are yet to be discovered . In my three decades of globe - trotting in search of mountain adventure , the most I ve he d bouldering area I have seen is smack in the middle of the rugged wilderness of Cmh Summer Adventures near the Cmh Bobbie Burns Lodge in a rugged part of the greater Canadian Rockies called the Vowell Range . The granite wonderland is just north of the world - famous Bugaboos rock climbing area , yet the Vowells see only a few visits , at most , each year . We were there during the summer of 2005 to climb the first ascent of the east face of Snafflehound Spire , visible in the background of this photo , but the thing that stands out most in my memory of the trip is the hundreds of truckto house - sized boulders scattered along the moraines below the glaciers . Like a lot of other valleys in the area , access is the only thing keeping the area from being a popular and well - known world - class adventure travel destination . To get there , we chartered a helicopter which dropped us just outside the Bugaboo Provincial Park boundary . Using a helicopter to access big climbs is nothing new , and Cmh Summer Adventures uses helicopters almost daily during the summer months to access hiking , climbing , mountaineering and via ferrata adventures in the area . But nobody is yet using helicopters to go bouldering . On our trip to the Vowells , we did n't have a crash pad the sturdy , closed cell foam pads boulderers use to cushion the landings and we were not willing to risk sprained ankles when we had bigger climbs in mind , but I really he d we had brought one . We did a little bouldering , as seen in the above photo , but did n't even begin to scratch the surface of the potential climbs in the area . Crash pads are awkward to carry , and do n't leave much room for sleeping bags , tents , food or the rest of the essentials for a remote wilderness adventure . For this reason alone , heli - bouldering might just have a place in the future of adventure travel , and there is nowhere better set up for it than the wilderness playground of Cmh Summer Adventures . Nobody has yet called the Cmh Summer Adventures office asking about using helicopters to go bouldering , and Cmh Summer Adventures does n't ( yet ) offer a program with bouldering , but maybe some day boulderers looking for adventure will realize what is possible with a helicopter and heli - bouldering will become part of the fabric of Cmh just like the heli - skiing , heli - hiking , via ferratas and heli - mountaineering that have made Cmh a visionary icon of the adventure travel world for the last 45 years . Photos by Topher Donahue of bouldering near the Cmh Bobbie Burns and a boulderer in Rocky Mountain National Park demonstrating why crash pads would be ideal for helicopter transport . Comments I just got an email from a friend who did indeed go heli - bouldering in the Cirque of the Unclimbables in the Northwest Territories , so you would n't be the first to use a helicopter to go bouldering in Canada , but nobody has yet done it based out of the comforts of a cmh lodge in heli - stye...
3  Gone with the wind for a grand crossing Story Tools Related Items Tussock lines the track in one of the more gentle sections . Photo Supplied The Tongariro Crossing 's name was changed in 2007 to the Tongariro Alpine Crossing in a bid to dissuade tourists from attempting the day - long trek taking little more than jandals and a water bottle only to be caught by the unpredictable weather . This should have been a warning to me too , but after checking the Metservice and seeing the weather was likely to be windy but fine , I packed only a T - shirt and shorts and threw in a jacket just in case . Thankfully , one of the members of our group brought extra thermals . And , after breathing in the cold mountain air , I decided to add a polyprop top and over - trousers before starting the climb into the mountains that were ominously he d in swirling cloud . The 19.4km crossing track in the National Park , just southwest of Lake Taupo , crosses volcanic plains , climbs sharply up the Devil 's Staircase , crosses the South Crater with Ngauruhoe ( 2290m ) on the right and Tongariro ( 1968m ) on the left , ascends Red Crater , then descends past the stunning Emerald Lake and Blue Lakes and zigzags down the mountain . It has the reputation of being the best day walk in New Zealand and , as such , attracts a steady stream of tourists most of whom are kitted out properly with tramping gear and packs . As we set off from the Mangatepopo carpark , the cloud lifted to reveal blue sky for the gentle walk along a gravel path that travelled up the valley beside bubbling streams and old , black lava flows . Clumps of scoria rose out of hardy shrubs , tussock and he s of bright green moss and on the peaks in front of us the patchy snow looked just like cookies - and - cream icecream . After a few kilometres we came to a sign warning those without hiking boots , thermals and emergency provisions to turn back and I realised this trek was about to get serious . On the steep 200m ascent , known as the Devil 's Staircase , the altitude put paid to the shrubs leaving only lime - green lichen clinging to the black rocks . Clouds he d over the ridge ahead , alternately chilling me or blinding me with the glare coming off he s of snow further up the mountain . Steps had been built into this part of the track but , even so , I had to stop often to catch my breath . That was when I first spotted the little he s of snow , hidden in the shadow of rocks , stubbornly refusing to melt . A beautiful view awaited us at the top of the ridge . South Crater he d in front with the snowy flanks of Tongariro on the left and the conical peak of Ngauruhoe , a vent of Tongariro , on the right . In 1990 Tongariro National Park was recognised as a World Heritage site for its volcanic features and , three years later it was the first area to be declared a World Heritage site for the spiritual and cultural values it holds for indigenous people . Maori legend tells how Ngatoroirangi , a tohunga and navigator of the waka Arawa , was exploring the mountainous area when he was struck down by an icy wind . Knowing he was near death , he prayed to his sisters in his far - off homeland , Hawaiiki , to send I m fire . It came to his rescue , travelling under the Pacific Ocean leaving a trail of volcanic vents wherever it surfaced from Whakaari ( white Island ) , through Rotorua , finally exploding at Tongariro and bringing Ngatoroirangi back from the brink of death . The mountain was accordingly named Tongariro , meaning seized by the cold south wind . Ngatoroirangi was an ancestor of the Ngati Tuwharetoa people and , in 1887 , paramount chief Te Heuheu Tukino Iv gave the sacred area 2630ha including the peaks of Ruapehu , Ngauruhoe and Tongariro to the Government to save it from exploitation so it could be held for future generations . After another short climb we he d Red Crater , at 1886km the highest point on the crossing . From there I could see that biting wind coming off the top of the ridgeline but was surprised to find the rocks were hot and the wind was actually steam . The combination saw me panick for a moment . Could this be a precursor to an eruption ? But the notion disappeared as quickly as it came for surely there would be a lot more warning than some steam and hot rocks . Later I learned the Red Crater last erupted in 1926 and , although Ngauruhoe had been known to erupt at least once every nine years , the last blast was in 1975 . I stopped to watch the steam , with a whiff of sulphur , rise from one of the three Emerald Lakes , gorgeous in their turquoise colours created by minerals he d from the barren landscape , before picking up hot rocks to thaw my hands before starting to scramble down the scree . Further on , Blue Lake lived up to its reputation for beauty , something that was emphasised by its snowy setting , but Ngatoroirangi 's icy wind whipped at my jacket snapping the hood against my face as I walked along the ridge . Pushing and pulling , the wind created wrinkles on the azure lake before smoothing them out again and I was glad to be wearing that thermal top and over - trousers . The way down was pitted with scoria but mighty Tongariro offered shelter from the wind and breathtaking views of Lake Taupo made the going much easier . We came across a Doc volunteer digging a track across a swathe of snow as , despite having rebuilt the path the day before , it had slipped again because of the melting snow and many walkers . Further down the track levelled out and zigzagged lazily through tussock and a rainbow of shrubs . I stopped briefly to gaze back up the slope , watching the steam billowing from Ketetahi Springs about halfway up and marvelling at how lucky I was to I ve in such a spectacular volcanic land . As we got closer to sea level a few ferns and flaxes appeared among the scrub . Then , suddenly , I was in the middle of podocarp bush , which offered a welcome respite from the sun and wind . When I had n't he d the carpark after an hour , I thought the track would never end , until I heard a car engine start up and turned the corner to find what I 'd been looking for . I had learned my lesson never again will I attempt the crossing without proper thermals or underestimate the cold south wind .
3  The flight between Santiago and Sydney went smoothly , despite the fact that I had to seat in the middle seats of the middle row in economy . A short stopover in New Zealand and finally arrived on Sunday 5 th of February at 7 am in Sydney . Customs went fairly quickly and when that was done , from the airport I took the train to the home of my first host in Australia , Mark Ashley ; last year I joined a community called " couchsurfing " or Cs ( self - explanatory name ) . This community is basically a way to travel and meet locals , which enables oneself to stray away from the usual tourist paths . People may offer you a place to stay , show you around the city or meet up for a coffee or a drink . It 's a great way to meet people from the places you 're visiting , meet their friends and basically share everyday life experiences of the locals . Mark was an excellent host and having a place to stay for the first week really helped me get organized fast . A few hours after arriving in Sydney , I went for a walk from North Sydney , across Harbour Bridge , down to the Rocks , Darling Harbour , Paddy Market and then back along the coast all the way to the Botanical Gardens . Then I went walking back to North Sydney . As I began to walk along Harbour Bridge , I finally became aware I was on the other side of the world and got that excellent hard to express feeling you get when you travel , only this time , unlike the previous times I 've travelled , I have all the time I want and do n't have to rush through anything . It was a very sunny day , walked a lot , got a bad face and neck burn , had lunch in Darling Harbour , saw dragon boat races there , etc . I had been in Sydney in 2002 and I remembered most of those places I went to . It 's good to be back here in this spectacular city . That night , I went out with Mark and some of his friends to a place called " hugo 's Lounge " in Kings Cross : the amount of gorgeous girls that go there is amazing . Because I 'm backpacking , I 'm not carrying any formal he s and the smartest he s I have are a collar T - shirt and a pair of black jeans . I had to borrow shoes to get into that place . I " the most dangerous risk of all The risk of spending your life not doing what you want on the bet you can buy yourself the freedom to do it later " . Patiperro : " chileanism " that is mostly used to refer to someone who likes to travel a lot . I 'm taking some time off work to do long term travel ( two years if possible ) . The 3 4 weeks of vacations I had each year was n't enough ; I needed more time . I do n't have any specific plans , just going with the flow and adjusting as events develope . I 'm probably going to be spending the first year in Australia and try to get some things done that I 've... full info Aboriginal settlers arrived on the continent from Southeast Asia about 40,000 years before the first Europeans began exploration in the 17th century . No formal territorial claims were made until 1770 , when Capt . James Cook Took Possession In The Name.   More Info
3  Flavour Trail of Prince Edward Island The chilly North Atlantic Ocean worms its way through the gaps between skin and wetsuit . I 'm chest deep in water that can n't be much above 12 degrees Celsius . I can feel liquid ice oozing down my neck as I duck my head beneath the surface . " At least the harbour is free of icebergs , " laughs Captain Perry Gotell wickedly , a third generation lobster fishermen who 's been on the sea all his life . In Mid - autumn the sea temperature is relatively balmy for locals who have been digging for clams on sandbars since the British claimed the island in the late 1700's . Armed with a long handled implement that looks suspiciously like a common garden rake , it does n't take long before the large tub we 're towing behind us is filled with juicy morsels . Canny critters that bury themselves deep when threatened , stubbornly refusing to yield to the prongs of my probing spikes , they easily grow to the size of a man 's palm . Before we get too chilled on this Giant Bar Clam Dig we haul our catch onboard . Deckhand Lucais , a fourth generation lobsterman , cleans the clams before popping them into a huge pot to steam on the aft deck . Before long , we 're tucking into juicy scallop - like delicacies . It 's easy to see why the 130,000 residents embrace their reputation for turning out fine produce , particularly during the annual Fall Flavours Festival . The Pei International Shellfish Chowder Championship is hotly contested , with highly acclaimed Chefs and Cooks arriving from kitchens across the globe to stake their I m on the title . Tucking into Sous Chef Jesse Macdonald 's divine lobster and roasted tomato chowder at Rodd Brudnell River Resort within hours of landing on Pei , my tastebuds were soon dancing to their own rapturous tune . Not one much inclined to order seafood chowder in the past , I soon realise chowder in these parts is a very serious business . A few days later , donning chef whites in a commercial kitchen under the guidance of Jeff Mccourt , I 'm let in on a few seafood chowder secrets . Enrolling in Culinary Boot Camp at the Culinary Institute of Canada , the pre - eminent training ground for Canadian Chefs , Boot Camp gives gourmands the inside running on preparing a delicious seafood banquet . Starting the day in a stark classroom takes me back to bewildering Home Economic classes in high school , before we 're handed recipes for risotto , gnocchi , lobster perogies , and of course , chowder . Soon , Jeff has us dicing tomatoes , chopping herbs , coaxing rice grains into creamy risotto , tossing steamed mussels , all the while lobbing ' secret ingredients ' into the chowder pot simmering on the stove . Wildly tempting aromas entice us to taste a little , then taste some more , just to be sure . Boot Camp wraps up too soon , upstairs overlooking Lobster Point , he d white linen draped across a table beside floor to ceiling windows in the Lucy Maud Dining Room . We tuck hungrily into the spoils of our labour . A plump seal pops his head up briefly , whiskers dripping , peering out of ridiculously large brown eyes before submerging again . Blubber , it occurs to me , as I tuck into another bowl of rich , creamy , waist - expanding chowder , is the key to staying warm on a clam dig . I make a mental note to tear myself away from this island of plenty before my body shape resembles that of a rotund seal .
3  While walking along the river today , the rain was light enough that I could pull out my camera and get shots of the mist - covered mountains , one of which I 've climbed . Even though this is n't working out the way I hoped , the way I planned , it is truly amazing and something I recommend to everyone . Have an adventure . Do something crazy . In costume , if you can bear it , because it makes people really willing to talk to you . A few pictures from the past week appear behind the jump : Cows and mountains : Scotland in a picture . ( not really , but it 's so pretty ! ) Pretty sure I took this at Stirling railway station . We 'll be back on the 22nd ! I refer to this , a part of our regular route within Inverness , as the " althing spot " - a perfect place for a meeting of 40 - odd people . I wish both of us could have been in this picture . Perfect book cover or what ? Culloden Avenue , a long pedestrian path leading to Culloden House , has these amazing sculptures along the way , all chosen in theme by local schoolchildren . I thought this was an appropriate one to grab a picture of . I also love dragons . Can n't forget the dragon 's children . These sculptures are fantastic . The original estate that stood near the Culloden Moor battlefield in 1746 , this gigantic and beautiful manor house , has been turned into what I am sure is an exorbitantly I ve hotel . I still want to stay there . We climbed a mountain , Craig Dunain . It was n't the largest mountain in the area , but it was tiring enough ! Here are the mountains I was talking about up above , there . i love this country .
3  Wine days out in the French Alps Skiing in winter , walking or biking in summer , gazing at the fabulous scenery at any time , most visitors to the French Alps come to appreciate the mountains . But , for a wine lover it 's well worth taking a day out of your schedule to explore the interesting Savoie wine areas , and sample the unusual wines produced in the small wineries dotted along the valleys . The wines you will taste are usually far better than you will be offered in an Alpine resort hotel or chalet . From the towns of Chamb ry , Aix - les - bains or Albertville , or even if you are up in one of the ski resorts ( many within an hour 's drive ) , a day trip to the vineyards is more than feasible . The Savoie vineyards are quite scattered , but the most concentrated area is around Chamb ry , at the foot of Mont Granier in the crus of Apremont and Abymes , and between Chamb ry and Albertville in the valley called the Combe de Savoie , with a beautiful stretch of vineyards on the south - facing foothills of the Bauges mountains . Fran ois and Philippe Tiollier Coming from Albertville , one of the nicest vineyard drives I know is between Fr I ve and Montm lian . Earlier this year , I took a friend along this road to visit the welcoming Tiollier brothers of the lovely - named Domaine de l 'idylle in the village of Cruet . Ever - smiling Fran ois and Philippe divide the work in this domaine that produces both white and red wines , primarily from Jacqu re and Altesse grapes for whites , and from Gamay , Pinot and Mondeuse for reds , but with an emphasis on the unusual Mondeuse which does particularly well in this part of Savoie . They have recently built a new underground cellar , linking up to the contrasting old one , which is still in use - if you visit , then do ask to take a look . My friend fell for their white wines in particular , both the fresh and simple Savoie Cruet from Jacqu re and their always - good , slightly fuller Roussette de Savoie . I was happy to find that their Mondeuse La Saxicole was tasting as good as ever and invested in some from the 2007 vintage - this wine is made with slightly lower yields than normal and a little micro - oxygenation to soften the hard tannins , it develops well over about I ve years . From there we drove to the Lac St - andr at the foot of the vineyards of Apremont and Abymes and the looming mountain of Mont Granier . A large section of this dramatically - shaped mountain , at the north end of the Chartreuse range of mountains , collapsed in an horrendous land - slide in 1248 killing thousands of people and changing the terroir ( something of eventual benefit to the vineyards ) . The small lake area is a great place to re - charge in - between tastings and you can stroll around the lake in about 20 minutes . Better still , what was a very basic restaurant by the lake was taken over a couple of years ago . The Saint - andr restaurant is now an excellent place to enjoy a very decent meal and has a large terrace where you can see both lake and vineyards . My friend and I enjoyed lunch there in April , and Brett and I were equally pleased with our meal when we went the other day . Both times we were tempted by the excellent _33 three course menu - if you visit on a weekday , they do a _14 simple 2 - course lunch too . The wine list supports the local growers as one would hope and there are a few half bottles . This last time we drank a lovely 2009 Pinot Noir from Domaine Blard , based in Apremont , who I have yet to visit ; previously we enjoyed a Ch teau de Monterminod Roussette de Savoie . If you are tempted after lunch to visit an Apremont grower , I can highly recommend a I ve up towards the Col du Mont Granier ( if you I ve all the way up to the pass , allow time for a 20 minutes walk to see a brilliant view ) . In the little village of La Palud , just beyond Chapareillan , you will find the rising star of this area , Domaine Giachino owned by another set of brothers , David and Fr d ric Giachino . They converted to organic growing a few years ago and their wines get better and better every time I taste them , and include an exemplary , properly dry Apremont . The Giachinos also provide the cellar facilities and help with the winemaking for a friend and organic grower Jacques Maillet , whose vineyards are over in the Chautagne district . If you visit the Giachinos , you can usually taste some of Jacques ' wines too . For a different day out , you might like to explore the vineyards over in Jongieux , through the Tunnel du Chat on the other side of the Lac de Bourget , an area also endowed with several excellent restaurants . The view down to the Jongieux church and across to the Marestel vineyard slope above is one of my favourite vineyard views . Tasting with Jean - fran ois Jacquin There are several good producers to visit here , and this summer we took friends to one of the first ever Savoie wine producers I got to know - domaine Edmond Jacquin et fils . The sons look after it now , with the younger Jean - fran ois increasingly in charge as brother Patrice has many other interests . They make lovely Gamay red and ros , but it is their Roussette de Savoie and their even more intense Marestel , both from the Altesse grape , that shine here . The day we visited was the day off for the Moraini res restaurant in the middle of the Marestel vineyard slope , so we headed back through the tunnel to Atmosph res , somewhere we had n't eaten at for a while . It was better than ever in terms of food and service , and I was delighted to discover their list of Savoie wines had expanded too - a real showcase for the wines of the region , which I applaud . Being lucky enough to have lived part of the year in the mountains of Haute Savoie for more than 15 years , I 'm proud to have put together our Savoie wine travel guide on the main website and have just updated it with our recent discoveries . There you will find many more winery , restaurant and accommodation recommendations , along with a run - down on the different grape varieties , appellations , crus and a description of the main wine styles . Next time you visit the French Alps , do look out for some of the great Savoie wines and , if possible , schedule in a day out to meet some of my wonderful vigneron friends - it 's always best to make an appointment first , do tell them i sent you !
3  The typical tourist in San Francisco We recently visited the Usa for 5 and half weeks . It was full of fun , drunken nights , mischief , laughs and plenty of adventures . 11 plane rides , 30hr road trips , late nights and lots of dark eye circles . I bring you our journey and thoughts of each city we visited . First up San Francisco - the land of the free spirits and almost anything goes . Almost everyone we speak to about San Francisco says nothing but praises and absolute admiration for this city . So what is it about San Francisco that makes people fall in love ? Aside from the beautiful landmarks and steep rolling hills , this city has a special hipster trendy vibe - anything really goes in this town . The weather is completely unpredictable , you are bound to experience 4 seasons in the one day ( very similar to Melbourne ) . I suggest you pack a light jacket just in case . Overall we found the people to be super friendly and plenty to do . Here 's a snapshot of our highlights of the city : Alcatraz - it is one of the most interesting and intense prisons we 've ever visited . There 's a creepy vibe about this place , it will leave you feeling uncomfortable yet wanting to find out more on its dark past . Alcatraz was one of my favourite tourist attractions in San Francisco , somewhere I highly recommend you visit . Make sure you book tickets well in advance to avoid disappointment and the sunset tour is a must ! Haight & Ashbury - this hipster town really reminded us of home , reminds me of Newtown - sydney . Haight - ashbury is famous for " the Summer of Love " back in the 60's where hippies meet . It 's also famous for breeding famous musicians such as Jimmy Hendrix , Jefferson Airplane , and The Grateful Dead to name a few . I think the saying " anything goes " originated in Haights & Ashbury . The relaxed , chilled environment really makes you feel welcome . It 's the place where you 'll come to release your inner child . Make sure you visit the Betty Page boutique and find your girlfriend or partner some trendy retro dresses . Pier 39 - this place is like a Darling Harbour of Sydney . You get your beautiful sea views with plenty of tourists . To be honest I came I saw and I left as quickly as I can . It was too crowded and everything seems to be a little bit more expensive . What 's new huh - complete and utter tourist trap ! Although I have to admit if you have kids it 's a good idea to take them here as its very family orientated with their quirky gift stores . Golden Gate Bridge - this famous bridge is one of the top tourists hotspots in Sf , got its reputation through Hollywood films and Full House - tv Series . We checked this place out to see if it was as beautiful as people say it is . Aside from the view of the city , the bridge itself is not spectacular . I think Sydney Harbour Bridge is better designed . If you want to check out and take photos of the famous houses where " full House " and " mrs . Doubtfire " was filmed , you will have to catch a bus and walk about a block to get there . As recent government changes has banned all tourist buses from stopping in front of these houses due to noise and disturbance concerns . Chinatown and Little Italy - the stretch from the beginning of Chinatown through to Little Italy is very long . It 's a nice walk with plenty of restaurants and shops to keep you entertained along the way . Very similar to the craziness you 'll expect to find at Sydney 's Patty 's market . Last but not least , the Trolley ! Its like a Melbourne Tram so if you really want to get around town its one of the best forms of transport . Just do n't catch it near Union Square , as it gets too busy with too many tourists . Like any city there 's always a bad side . On our first night of arriving in San Francisco , we were so hungry that we wanted to walk around looking for food at 11 o'clock at night . Our hotel concierge advised us there 's not a lot of stores open at this time but there was some shops open in the neighborhood Tenderloin that was not far from Union Square . We almost walked to Tenderloin but decided it was too late and instead bought hotdogs from a seven eleven . What we did n't realise about Tenderloin was it is regarded as one of the highest crime related area . Heavily populated with homelessness and it is recommended to avoid if you are a tourist . Homelessness is very are nt in Sf - after 6pm , when all the retail stores have shut you will see some harmless , extremely vocal and violent homeless individuals roam the streets . This is quite a sight and we were n't expecting to see homeless people at almost every street corner . Overall , we really enjoyed our stay in san francisco ! more city reviews to come .
3  " why Mycenae is one of my favourite places " Back in the summer , Dr Michael Higgins joined us on Aegean Odyssey . Those readers who view our blog regularly will know that we like to ask our guest lecturers to recount their journey and its highlights . For Michael , it was Mycenae , the archaeological site located 90km south west of Athens and whose name was given to the period of Greek history for 1600 - 1100bc . -- -- - " the Light Of Greece " is really a classic Aegean cruise , visiting so many wonderful places in Greece and Turkey . What I like about cruising is waking up each morning in the same bed , but in a new place . The ship ran very smoothly , and I was very impressed how Alison and her team coped with unexpected changes of plans . One of my favourite places in Greece is Mycenae . The wild setting and compact site makes it easier to imagine what it must have been like in antiquity . I also have fond memories of tortoises crawling amongst the ruins , but I had not been there for twenty years and was not sure if it had changed . I was so pleased when our bus pulled up and I realised that we were the first on the site . The Plain of Argos , Mycenae The entrance to the site must be one of the best in Greece . The walls beside the path to the gate were clearly designed to impress - the great blocks of I ve conglomerate are replaced by an unimpressive , but functional , grey limestone just around the corner . Then I went on through the wonderful Lion Gate , almost unchanged in over 3200 years , if you neglect the lions ' heads . Lion Gate , Mycenae Inside , the first thing that you see is the mysterious grave - circle which yielded so much gold . And then up onto the top of the site with clear views of the whole valley . No tortoises this time on the site , but lots of flowers for early May . I went to the other end to explore the cistern that goes down 50 feet under the walls - but I could not coax much light out of my camera and so had to remember it from my last visit . A copy of the Golden Mask of Agamemnon at the Museum of Mycenae , a grave mask believed to be the funeral mask of king Agamemnon I he d the tour at the Museum - what a gem , even if they do not have the best pieces . I had another reason to visit the museum - my father excavated here before I was born and I wanted to see if I could find I m in any of the excavation photos on display . I had no luck - next time I must ask if I can see their archives . -- -- - about Michael Higgins Michael Higgins Michael 's interest in the Mediterranean started with a cruise at age 16 and continued as a geology student on many backpacking trips during his degree at Cambridge . In 1974 he set off from the Uk to Canada for his Phd at Mcgill University and has worked there ever since , except for research sabbaticals overseas . His co - authored book , A Geological Companion to Greece and the Aegean , explores the geology of archaeological sites , including aspects such as bedrock , building materials , earthquakes and volcanic eruptions . His current book project is on geology and the ancient wonders of the world . He recently joined us on our Light of Greece cruise , where we visited the sites of two of the ancient wonders : The Colossus of Rhodes ^zz++++=EXTRAWORD And The Temple Of Artemis At Ephesus 
3  A visit to ( surfers ) Paradise There is a certain , universal brand of city that takes pride in it 's tackiness , trades on it , even . The marketing for this city most likely alternates between " wholesome Family Fun " and " girls , Girls , Girls ! " The United States has Miami , Spain has Malaga and in Australia we have Surfers Paradise - home to the " big 3 ? theme parks , other ( less - big ) theme parks , Schoolies Week , Meter Maids and countless bronzed pensioners . Located about an hour 's I ve south of Brisbane on an otherwise lovely stretch of rain - forested hinterland ( opportunistically re - named ' the Gold Coast ') Surfers Paradise is one of the most popular holiday destinations in Australia . Just about everyone 's family has made the pilgrimage at least once , including mine and , having not been back since , in my mind it was still 1993 on the Gold Coast - my siblings and I in matching neon tracksuits ( so Mum would n't lose us ) , freaking out over the Gremlins ride at Movie World and hoping to hold a koala . To be honest I was happy to leave it that way , but then , in the middle of a gloomy Melbourne winter , my partner Sean suggested we go back . It would make a good photo - series , he urged , and we can play Egyptian - themed mini - golf ! Having won me over , we acted fast , booked a cheap hotel room and before long were descending into the Gold Coast airport with Surfers Paradise spread narrowly below us ; the high - rise buildings so close to the sea they may as well have been on the beach . And just like that , there we were in downtown Surfers Paradise . We spent the first half hour wandering , dazed and hyperactive , peering up at the tall buildings which contrasted strangely with the quiet , off - season streets . There were a lot of souvenir shops , we could n't find anywhere to buy he s ( just burgers ) , and I noted the frequent use of ' mistral ' on shop signage ( for non type - nerds , that 's the 80?s looking title font from ' drive '). But we had fun . Our cheap hotel room turned out to be really nice , sunny and directly across from the beach , and when we were n't swimming we played arcade games , visited the 1960?s wax museum ( creepy , Do n't go there ) and yes , took lots of photos . We also found one little oasis among the time - warp , which I 'm looking forward to sharing next week . Until then , enjoy the photos , which are part of Sean 's upcoming zine ' gold '. Comments : When I went to Surfer 's back in 2001 , the hostels offered $ 10 bar crawls , which of course were sleezy , but were probably the greatest investment because of the incredible returns . You were handed 5 free drink tickets at the hostel . Then at the first bar you were handed I ve more free drink tickets . By the end of the night you were the guy who could easily yell " the next round is on me , everyone , " without dropping a dime .
3  10 of the most beautiful autumn break destinations around the world 10 of the most beautiful autumn break destinations Do n't bother mourning the end of summer - just look forward to an autumn trip instead . From colourful foliage to spooky festivals here are ten of the most beautiful fall break destinations around the world : Douro Valley , Portugal Many parts of Europe make great autumn travel destinations . High on the list is Portugal 's Douro Valley . The Valley is one of the few places in the world where grapes are still trodden by foot . In late September , early October you can join the locals as they tread the grapes accompanied by a local accordionist ( at the Quinta de la Rosa winery ) . The scenery is also very beautiful in this part of rural Portugal - the river valley is surrounded by steep green hills and there is little in the way of developed tourism , ensuring plenty of peace and quiet . Xihai Grand Canyon , China This area of outstanding natural beauty in China has only recently opened to the public . Craggy , surreal and highly photogenic the canyon was one of China 's best kept secrets . Often surrounded by an atmospheric mist it 's known for its mysterious landscapes and surreal features . The ancient pine trees , steep mountains and unusual rock formations has earned it the nickname " the Magic Scenic Area " . Autumn is one of the best seasons to visit as the temperature begins to cool and the leaves will begin to change - giving you even more great photo opportunities . The New Forest , England England has plenty of fine places to see the best of autumn season . One of the best is the New Forest , which is the largest remaining open heathland and forest in the otherwise heavily - populated South East England . Ablaze with colour at this time of year , the area is a paradise for walkers and cyclists . You 'll find miles of traffic - free tracks through the forest as well as picnic spots , cosy tea shops and traditional English pubs . Also do n't miss the adorable new forest ponies which roam freely throughout the heathland . Day of the Dead Festival , Mexico The Day of the Dead is not quite as scary as you might think , in fact this colourful Mexican holiday could actually be considered quite jolly . The celebration which takes place on 1st November is an official Catholic holiday . Family and friends remember loved ones that have died but it 's also a celebration of life . Expect everything from decorated streets and graveyards to brightly coloured flowers and painted skeleton figurines . Also be sure to see lively street parades and plenty of traditional Mexican food . Virginia , United States Fall is the perfect time to visit this Us state . There 's a more comfortable climate for starters and of course you 'll get the chance to see the famous foliage change colour . Virginia has many things going for it including great beaches , thick forests and some of the oldest towns in North America . For a unique fall break charter a hot air balloon or search out some Virginia Beach vacation rentals to make the most of the gorgeous coastline . Oktoberfest , Germany This famous beer festival is a rip - roaring sixteen day event full of lederhosen clad men and beautiful serving staff . The much - loved Munich festival ( 17th September - 3rd October ) was originally a one - off celebration of the marriage of Crown Prince Ludwig and his bride but it was so popular it has remained a permanent annual fixture 170 years on . Feast on pork knuckles , bratwurst and potato pancakes while surrounded by high - spirited Bavarians . Definitely the mother of all beer festivals . Mid - autumn Festival , Kuala Lumpur Mid - autumn Festival of Kuala Lumpur is celebrated on the 15th day of Chinese calendar 's eighth month . The Mid - autumn Festival or Mooncake Festival as it 's otherwise known is a yearly celebration for the Malaysian capital . It takes place on the 15th day of Chinese calender 's eighth month and as you 've probably guessed , mooncakes feature heavily . The cakes are baked in all shapes and sizes and are handed out to all and sundry . You 'll also see pretty Lantern processions , beautifully decorated parks and city squares , public displays of affection and plenty of general merriment . Switzerland Swizterland is a beautiful travel destination all year round but the fall season is particularly pretty . You 'll see plenty of autumnal colours before the snow turns everything white and this time of year the country is I ve with festivals - many of which are the food variety . Harvest is celebrated in a big way here and visitors can choose from chestnut fairs , feasts involving whole towns or street parades featuring locals dressed in skins and moss . Dublin , Ireland Autumn is a great time to visit Dublin , the pubs are free from the annual summer stag do 's and the city takes on quieter more atmospheric feel . If you plan your autumn break around Halloween you 're in for a treat . Ireland is where Halloween is thought to originate from and every year The Pooka 's Labyrinth Halloween parade takes place in the Irish capital . Ghosts , ghouls and scarily dressed people take to the capital 's highways and byways and Irish mythical legends and folklore characters such as giants also feature . New England , United States No autumn travel destination list would be complete without a mention of New England . New England with its easy - on - the eye natural scenery and endless woodlands makes one of the most beautiful travel destinations to see the foliage change colour . Although you do n't have to just watch the leaves , there are also plenty of other things to do including trekking , mountain trail walks and biking . Douro Valley is one of the place that i wish to go since long time ago , i was having a business trip on portugal last month and i missed the golden chance for the delayed meeting : ( Will definitely plan for my next business trip to Europe : ) Leave a Comment About Us We are Becky and Gray the Uk - based husband and wife team behind Globalgrasshopper . We love exploring new places , taking photographs and staying at the most unique hotels we can find . We are also joined by a team of enthusiastic travel writers . Together we I m to inspire others to travel with independent travel guides , photography and articles about beautiful undiscovered places . Why not subscribe to our news feed and join us on our journey ?
3  I love my life ! Taking my time , soaking in the sights and always taking the road less traveled . What the heck am I still doing in Canada as Winter approaches ? ? What on earth is going on ? Where am I ? What am I doing ? Why have n't I written anything for quite some time ? Blah , blah , blah , blah , Blah ! Truthfully , I 'm feeling pretty apathetic about my travel journal . Why is that ? ( another darn question ! ) I think it 's because I 'm technically not travelling anymore . Furthermore , I really do not feel like writing down about my daily activities and such in Victoria . Actually , that 's a lie because it 's always on the back of my mind and sometimes I think about fantastic and interesting things to write down , but I just never get around to it , so ultimately , it comes down to priorities and my travel journal has not been one of them . Now , you might be asking yourself , what are my priorities ? I often ask myself the same question . Presently , I am not to sure ! Health is an obvious one . For example , I went to Stacies birthday party on the just passed weekend . Knowing that she was getting a keg and that it probably would n't be the most vegan friendly environment , I packed an abundance of fruits , two smoothies full of more fruits and vegetables , nuts , seeds , two meals ( i always cook in large quantities so there are Always leftovers for lunch the next day or dinner ) and finally , my daily breakfast of steel - cut oats with an assortment of seeds for the following morning so I would could jump right back on the healthy bandwagon ! If you think that the two photos above are beautiful , it 's because they are . Victoria was beautiful almost two months ago when I snapped those . It 's a rarity to wake up and see the sun shining now . Instead , the leaves are brown ( which is still very beautiful ) the skies are mostly grey ( not as pretty ) and the roads are pretty slick rain , rain go away ! Apparently though , I can expect this cold , wet , miserable weather to be quite regular over the upcoming months . Fortunately though the very same people that tell me about how chilly it 's going to be also tell me that I am in the best part of Canada for a Winter , with minimal snow on the island and in Victoria . So yippee for that ! Truly though , I love Victoria ! That is why I have decided to settle down for a bit here . I love the community of friends I have made , the place itself is wonderful , it 's not a big city , nor is it to small . I very much enjoy the work that I am doing , so why not keep the good times rollin '?? This is my vehicle . Up until recently , I had enjoyed riding to get around . I still do , but like I said , there is a cool breeze in the air ! It 's uncommon for me to leave the house without at least a shirt on , maybe a light hoodie on above that , then another jumper on top of that and then a waterproof windbreaker , and finally a scarf is the dairy - free icing on my cake . Anyhow , this morning I found out that " anyhow " is not actually proper English ! Thursdays are my favourite ! ! For the past 3 weeks I have been attending a Toastmasters club in Victoria . They meet at 6:55am each Thursday and have welcomed me into their club . This morning , I was informed that " anyhow " is actually slang , I did not know that . That is why I go , to learn ! After my Thursday morning Toastmasters meetings I go to the Camosun College Landsdowne campus to use the gym . Do I pay to use it ? No way ! I have n't 'd to pay to use a single gym since I left Australia ! Maybe I should start paying to use the gym ? In almost the 8 months since departing I have gained somewhere between 4 - 5kgs ! Whoopsie . . Getting up early is one of a few things that is starting to become quite difficult . Gone are the days where getting up at 4:15am was a cinch ! Doing pull ups is proving to be a bit more of a challenge . Banging out 20 straight reps was something I used to be quite proud of , but now getting through 3 sets of 10 reps is quite the task . And do n't even get me started on running ! Boy oh boy , Jack aint so nimble or quick anymore ! What else do I need to highlight , hmmmm. . . ? When I moved into this temporary ( i 'll tell you why it 's temporary in a second ) home on the 1st of October , I was just coming down with what was to be a mean cold I got a bit better , then the next day would feel considerably worse . Towards the end of the sickness we decided to get a cat , which after going through many names , we agreed upon " coco " . Coco is quite the smart cat , very lazy , but quite a personality . She 'll lounge around for most of the day , but as soon as a door or window opens , she 'll sneakily try for her great escape . When she wants your attention she 'll make all the noise in the world , if she wants nothing to do with you , you 'll know about it . Anyways , so we got Coco and I started coughing heavily and had these intense headaches . It probably lasted 2 days , but I was convinced that I was allergic to cats , like father , like son . Thanks dad ! Good news though , turns out I am not allergic . So my room which I declared a " cat - free zone " now welcomes Coco . I put an ad out on a local website asking for odd jobs . Monday to Friday , I work no less than 3 hours a day , so obviously I am very busy and do n't have much time for anything else . Regardless , I thought I could use a bit of extra work to fill up my days , there were a few interests , but nothing concrete . I thought it was funny nonetheless ! Working for Community Living Victoria has so far been an absolute blast ! Being apart of the Teen Community Connections team is a tonne of fun and post camp , it 's exactly what I want to be apart of . For example , last Friday after we picked the teens up we visited a pumpkin patch before going off to play some capture the flag . I have never been to a pumpkin patch before , it was such a cool experience ! It was Huge ! Over on this side of the world they celebrate something called " halloween " and apparently carving pumpkins are a big deal . " what ? ? You 've Never Carved A Pumpkin Before?! ? " My room mates and I are throwing a Halloween party on Halloween , which falls on a Wednesday , so we are expecting quite the attendance . Unfortunately though , the good times at 2537 Cedar Hill Rd are coming to an end . Just two weeks after moving in I found out that I have to move out ! The land lady wants to move back in with her son after a failed relationship or something . So we have 6 weeks to ship on out ! Come the first of December I am pretty sure I have found a place to sub - let until the 1st of May next year . It 's a really cool place , again shared with 3 room mates , it 's not in the ideal location and it 's a bit more expensive , but I think it will be cozy for 6 months before I head back to camp. . . Only 230 days to go . Ha ! Now I believe that is it ! I mean there are many things that I have n't gone into detail about , but you get the gist of where I am at . I got a little bit of a routine which I like very much . Toastmasters and the gym on Thursday mornings , I play indoor soccer on Tuesday evenings at Uvic . Chloe and I joined an intramural team and we 've lost the last 3 games. . . but it 's fun so that 's irrelevant ! ; ) Oh ! I almost got away with it again . I never wrote anything for all of September . That was a fun month as I did n't pay a cent in rent , although my grocery bill was through the roof ! I was fortunate enough to stay with Stacie and Jen . In return for allowing me into their home I attempted to cook as frequently as possible , but I owe them so much more than that . From what I can remember during September there was an abundance of two things : 1 . Great food Scrumptious pad - thai . Fresh pizza night was always a favourite . A combination of dips and Catan was deadly . . 2 . Numerous games of Settlers of Catan Naturally , I would typically win ; ) And another win , online this time with Jim , Stace and Luke . Watch out cool kids ! If I was n't cooking , I would be playing Catan . If I was n't playing Catan I would be cooking . More often than not it was a combination of the two . Now folks , that 's all for today . I 'd like to say that I will get around to another entry before the end of the year , but no promises !
3  words on walking Pyrenees What comes down must go up : An attempt at the Pyrenean Haute Route Traverse At the end of June 2006 , I set out to walk the length of the Pyrenees from Hendaye on the Atlantic coast of France to Banyuls - sur - mer on the Mediterranean , by means of the Hrp ( Haute Randonn e Pyr n enne ) - the Pyrenean Haute Route . The Hrp is more than 800 kilometres long and walking it involves over 40,000 metres of ascent and descent , on frequently difficult terrain , often in poor weather conditions and more than likely he d down with a 20 - odd kilo rucksack - if one elects to carry camping kit and food rather than eating and sleeping in refuges . Nonetheless , this is an enterprise that should take a fit individual between six and seven weeks of walking ; I knew it would be tough , but I felt sure that I could manage it . The previous summer , I 'd had a practice run accompanied by my friend Paul Robinson ; we spent ten days walking the most popular section of the Hrp between Lescun and Gavarnie , finishing with an ascent of Le Taillon ( 3,144m ) on the outlandishly proportioned Cirque de Gavarnie . A typical day on the Hrp involves an ascent of 1,000 - 1,500 metres followed by a similar descent and initially , laden with heavy packs , we 'd found the going hard work , but once we 'd got into a rhythm we fairly charged along . 1 Having acquainted myself with the physical demands of the route along with the various problems that present themselves to the Hrp walker , such as infrequent re - provisioning opportunities , occasional dearth of water supply , inclement weather and navigational difficulties - amongst others , I felt well equipped to make my attempt at what French walkers know as la grande travers e . I had recruited several friends to accompany me for various sections of the route and had only the section between Lescun and Gavarnie - which I already knew - and a few days at the end of the walk where I would be alone . For me this was important for safety reasons , for the pleasure of company and the shared experience and also because , in theory at least , the weight of a tent , cooker , fuel etcetera is shared between two . Weight becomes something of an obsession for Haute Route walkers for good reason . I would advise anyone considering taking on the Hrp to carry only what is absolutely essential . It 's a common practice for people to send spare clothing , books , tents , spare footwear and various other items home after the first few days ; John Pearson , who we will meet later on , even tore the pages from his guide book at the end of each day 's walk . I arrived at Hendaye on the evening of June 30 th in the company of Matthew , an experienced walker whom I had accompanied on seven or eight legs of his own round - the - world - walk , which had departed Finsbury Park some 15 years previously and , over the course of 30 - odd stages , had thus far he d Alba Iulia in Romania , a few days hike from the foothills of the Carpathians . Matt has an idiosyncratic approach to long distance walks , which has its own special charm and always makes for a hugely entertaining experience . His path across Europe has been less than direct , preferring to use the most interesting or scenic routes rather than the most straightforward . Matt is something of a polymath and as well as being able to keep you informed about the geology , flora , fauna , avia , botany and history of the landscape you 're moving through , he 'll invariably speak the language and have probably he d up on any local dialects to boot . Furthermore , he is an excellent navigator and I knew that his company would prove invaluable on the first section of the walk , through the Pays Basque to Lescun , where the High Pyrenees begin . In places , the Hrp is more of a concept than an actual , distinct way - marked route ; throughout its length it borrows sections of the Gr10 and Gr11 2 as well as other paths and in some places there is little or no path at all . At times , all that he s the route from its environment are paint he s of assorted colours on rocks and trees or often confusing collections of cairns . Sometimes there is nothing at all , save the route marked on the map or described in one of the two guide books ; the original version fran aise by Georges V ron ( unsurprisingly preferred by French walkers ) or the version anglaise ( preferred by everyone else ) , which was actually written by a Dutchman named Ton Joosten . According to Mr Joosten , the first section through the Pays Basque is the most challenging navigationally , for two main reasons : first , the dearth of way - markers or even distinct paths in some places and , second , the region 's predisposition to dense mist , low cloud and fine rain , which can reduce visibility to a few yards and can settle in for days at a time . As it happens , we experienced just about every form of weather conceivable in the space of the first week . Hendaye Plage , 800kms to go That first morning , as we stood for our obligatory photo - camera on timer - with our backs to the Atlantic , the sky was overcast and we wondered if we might be in for a wet day . However , as we navigated our way up and out of Hendaye ( as tricky a bit of route - finding as you might experience in the high mountains ) , the cloud - cover lifted and with it went the temperature . We diligently drank lots of water and refilled wherever we could . Our route picked up a variety of tracks , paths and rough roads and wound away from the sea , gradually climbing , losing some height here , gaining a little more there , until we were out among rolling hills and woodland . By the middle of the day we had he d a road crossing the Franco - spanish border at the Col d 'ibardin ( 317m ) , its agglomeration of restaurants and souvenir shops busily servicing numerous coach parties and family carloads . We gave this bustling scene of commerce a wide berth and picked up our path with directions from a sweaty , middle - aged French jogger who , with not untypical chauvinism , warned us off the ' spanish bandits ' waiting to rip us off south of the border . Walking towards La Rhune By the early afternoon the day had become very hot . After a brief refuelling stop , we headed toward La Rhune , which , at 900 metres , was by far the biggest hill we would encounter on our first day . The heat intensified and at about three in the afternoon , Matthew 's thermostat broke down . The temperature had crept towards 35 C and hauling our heavy packs uphill in plein soleil had caused Matt , who is of fair complexion , to overheat . We sheltered under some trees while Matt panted like a greyhound in a hot car with the windows up and glugged litres of water . I was worried , but a rest out of the sun cooled I m down and so we continued along a wooded path beneath the humpbacked bulk of La Rhune until we he d the spine of the ridge where it dropped away to the south . We followed the ridge and at length arrived at the Col de Lizuniaga ( 230m ) , our destination for the day . The col is crossed by a road and is occupied by a small hotel - restaurant . A large , flat , grassy area in front of the hotel provides a natural camping site for Haute Route walkers and we were eventually joined here by three French chaps and a Scottish lad who were also candidates for la grande travers e . We ate a large meal in the restaurant , he d England exit the World Cup after Wayne Rooney stamped on Ricardo Carvalho 's bollocks and then lay awake in our tent , kept from our sleep by the clang and clatter of alpine cowbells . The next day dawned cloaked in mist . This was a good result after the previous day 's intense heat and sunshine . We were up , packed , breakfasted and running before the various members of the ' auld alliance ' had exited their tents , which was hugely gratifying and we strode out following the ridge south - east . The misty conditions and abundance of intersecting paths meant that we had to keep our I ve eye on the ball , but Mr Joosten 's book and the compass kept us on course . Basque Country pea - souper The morning passed relatively uneventfully in an eerie mist - dampened hush . We saw no one . In the early afternoon , the sun broke through , helping us to locate our unmarked route southeast off the ridge at the Col de Bagacheta ( 793m ) . In a little less than an hour we passed through the Basque hamlet of Azpilkueta , feeling dwarfed by its big - boned , stone - built mediaeval houses . From here we followed roads to the village of Arizkun where we sat awhile outside a tree - shaded caf , gathered some supplies and he d a few locals playing Pelota - a bit like an amalgam of hurling , racquetball and fives - on a huge municipal court . Late in the afternoon , we climbed steeply up out of Arizkun and found ourselves a camping spot in a sheep - field atop our newly gained ridge . In the middle of the field a bathtub with a cistern served as a trough . Matt was all for filling it up by holding the ballcock down in the cistern , so he could enjoy a bath ; however , I frowned on this as a deeply wasteful notion , arguing that the farmer would be hard - pressed to water his sheep in the dry summer months . Matt reluctantly acquiesced and made - do with a wash - down . That night it rained torrentially . After packing - up and porridge the next morning , we navigated our way along the misty , wooded ridge . Weak sunlight lit the mist - canopied trees from above ; it was a scene of bewitching beauty and it was an effort not to be distracted from our route - finding focus . However , we held our course and the mist stayed on the higher ground as we descended towards the village of Les Aldudes . We parked ourselves outside a bar - restaurant opposite the Mairie in the tiny square and ordered and devoured three sublime omelettes aux c pes between the two of us . While we were digesting , we were joined by Didier , a I ve though entirely robust randonneur who was embarking on his third traverse of the Hrp . We would encounter Didier several times over the next I ve days , by which point his self - confident , not entirely justified know - it - all - ism would begin to piss us off . For the moment , however , his experienced I ve on the Hrp was worth listening to . Pea - souper Ii We departed the village equipped with two very large tins of top - quality cassoulet , which he d us down as we sweated our way up on to the ridge forming the eastern boundary of the Vall e des Aldudes . Atop the ridge was a realm of misty dampness . In this condition , there was no real view and little else of charm to detain us , so we battered on along the ridge gaining a little height here , losing some there , until , at length , we arrived at the Col d 'hauzay ( 965m ) . Here there is a crossroads and Mr Joosten erroneously suggests following the road Se to the Col de Burdincurutch . There is in fact a path through the woods above the road and just below the ridge . This path takes you through some enchanting forest studded with rocky outcrops . We were making for Roncevalles , a couple of hours away , but we would have been better served to pitch our tent somewhere along this beautiful wooded crest . Instead , we strode on , believing Mr Joosten 's stories about idyllic riverside camping spots by Roncevalles . From the col we turned sharply east with the ridge and made the short steep climb to the Redoute de Lindux ( 1,220m ) a Napoleonic fortification , which , had it not been for the mist , would have given us commanding views over Roncevalles and the Spanish Basque hinterland . I demonstrated the pronounced strategic advantage held by the fort 's occupants by lying in wait for Matt then charging down hill at I m screaming my head off and skewering I m with my imaginary bayonet . I do love hysterical re - enactments . It had been a long day and we trudged down along the ridge looking forward to dinner and our idyllic camping spot . The reality , when we arrived there , was an insect - infested , tussocky bog . We camped a few hundred yards short of the monastery at Roncevalles , which is a staging post for pilgrims walking the Camino de Santiago from St - jean - pied - de - port at the foot of the French side of the Pyrenees ( often pilgrims travel from much further afield ) to Santiago de Compostela in Galicia , northwestern Spain . By the time we arrived , there were no further pilgrims on the path that day , but we certainly encountered a few the next morning . The morning was clear and bright and we made an early start , regaining the ridge at the Col de Roncevaux . From this vantage point we enjoyed a spectacular cloud inversion - except for the highest hilltops , the land beneath us to the north was submerged under a sea of cotton wool cloud . We soon caught up with Didier , who had camped on the Redoute de Lindux the previous night , and kept his company until we he d a confluence of paths where he headed southeast on a variant that would take I m through the F ret d 'iraty. In the distance we could make out the pointy summit of the Pic d 'orhy ( 2,017m ) , which we hoped to cross in a couple of days time . We continued on our way , on a section of path shared by the Hrp , the Gr11 and the Gr65 - the Camino de Santiago . The trickle of pilgrims heading in the opposite direction became a stream . For the most part pilgrims on the Camino are easily distinguishable from other walkers ; they 're all walking the same way of course , but they also tend to dress differently . We passed a young priest in a full - length cassock , which must have been uncomfortable in the heat , and numerous young women wearing ankle - length skirts ; pastel shades seemed popular with all age groups and many people were sporting a coquille Saint - jacques or scallop shell - the emblem of the Santiago I m - on their rucksacks or wooden walking staffs . We also passed families walking with pack - mules carrying their supplies . Eventually , our path diverged from the Camino and we were , albeit briefly , on our own again . Continuing along the ridge as the heat intensified , with the striking horseshoe summit of Urculu ahead of us , we were surprised as several companies of Spanish paratroopers yomped into view and thundered up - hill past us , dripping sweat , laden with packs and automatic rifles - altogether an I ve display of martial discipline . However , they all responded very politely to our greetings with a gasped ' ola ' or ' buenos ' . It was turning into a busy day on the Hrp . An hour or so later , we stopped in the shade of some trees for lunch and decided that we would try a variant to the he d route , using a path that followed the south side of our ridge rather than the road that traversed the north side . This initially went well , but then the path ran out and the mist closed in again ; so , unsure of our route , we backtracked to the road . This offered a mundane though straightforward trudge until we dropped steeply off the ridge on a small path and crossed a river by a footbridge . It started to rain and visibility was much reduced as we began the steep , 300 - metre climb to the Col d 'errozat ( 1,076m ) . Half way up the climb , which traverses the incline diagonally , was a small plaque commemorating a group of several walkers killed by an avalanche some years before ; on such a steep , exposed slope they would n't have had a chance . Crossing the col , we picked up our path and descended a small valley , which at length led us to Egurgui , situated on a confluence of streams at the valley bottom . This was our destination for the day . The rain had settled in and we sheltered at the rear of the recently abandoned refuge , which is the only building here . How we he d that it was open and selling lots of good things to eat and drink . Instead , we cooked and ate our rice and tuna special , then he d the tent next to one of the streams . The rain , it seemed , was here to stay . It was still there in the morning , or the lightening of the sky that passed for morning in this murky world of wetness . Visibility was n't great and we had to start the day climbing up out of Egurgui without a path . It was tricky , but thanks to Matt 's navigational acumen we stayed on course and were eventually rewarded with a path , which seemed more or less to do what we hoped it would . The rain continued . Our path took us through some woods and we picked several fat ceps , which we stowed away for lunch . After swarming up a steep grassy hillside to the Col d 'oraat ( 1,303m ) , we again faced the challenge of navigating without a path in dense mist . Here , as on many subsequent occasions , my altimeter proved invaluable ; knowing what elevation you are at is a real aid to staying on course in poor visibility or when you might otherwise be seduced into crossing the wrong col for example . We soon picked up the red and white painted he s of the Gr10 , which the Hrp would follow as far as our day 's I ve - the Col Bagargui . The rain continued to fall steadily and we trudged along on a well - trodden track , gaining a little height , before descending a few hundred metres through forest to a road . We took shelter under a huge pine tree with an impressively weatherproof canopy and Matt cooked up the ceps we 'd gathered earlier for lunch . We had just he d our extremely tasty snack when Didier himself appeared and dispensed more wisdom much as if he was a hologram operated by the regional tourist board . Ceps for lunch The afternoon involved traipsing along a tarmac road in the rain , followed by an athletic surge up and along a ridge to the Col Bagargui and the Iraty ' tourist complex ', which is n't nearly so bad as it sounds . By now it was teeming down with rain and this fact combined with the lack of camping opportunities readily persuaded us to take a room in a walkers ' g te . It was I ve and allowed us to indulge in a riot of showering , shaving , laundering , kit drying and rucksack disgorging . In the evening , we had a splendid dinner in the nearby bar - restaurant and met several other walkers . I shared a roll - up ( an occasional vice ) with one of two chain - smoking French brothers in their mid - fifties who were attempting la grande travers e via the Gr10 ; they did n't seem the fittest individuals , but I encountered them again a couple of times en route and they certainly made good progress . We also got talking to a lovely lad called Laurent who radiated good health and bonhomie and who , he announced , was attempting to complete the Hrp in 20 days ! This is half the time a fit walker would expect to take . Laurent was basically knocking out two stages every day ; he was travelling extremely light , carrying a mere seven kilos and wearing running shoes . Every fourth day , he would rendezvous with his wife or a friend and collect new he s and trainers . Laurent was tall and very fit looking - a triathlete and mountain - runner - and we were surprised to learn that he was 40 , the same age as me . The lovely thing about Laurent was that he was completely un - egotistical about his enterprise ; in fact , he asked us if he might join us on the following day 's walk , which promised to be an epic hike in poor conditions . After dinner we he d Les Bleus dispatch the perfidious Portuguese , and then headed for bed having agreed a rendezvous with Laurent at 5.30 a.m . Before dawn the next day , we trudged out along the Cr te d 'orgambidesca, our headlamps casting about like searchlights in the mist . As the morning sky lightened , it was obvious that we would have to navigate through another day of poor visibility . Furthermore , our route would take us along the exposed Zazpigagn ridge , over the 2,017 - metre summit of the Pic d 'orhy, then up and down along the border ridge for several hours - and the wind was picking up already . However , before we had even got that far , navigation was proving enough of a challenge and we had had to backtrack and re - calibrate our bearings several times - it also became are nt that Laurent 's orienteering skills were n't as well developed as his formidable physique . Nonetheless , we found our somewhat airy route up to the summit of Pic d 'orhy in wet , windy and misty conditions and rapidly descended the 400 metres to the I ve shelter of the Port de Larrau . After refuelling , we struck out along the border ridge and a cold crosswind instantly bit into us . We quickly took shelter in a hunter 's hide and donned every item of clothing we possessed , before continuing . Both Matt and Laurent had opted to equip themselves with rain capes rather than waterproof jackets and they certainly have their practical advantages , but they also provided me with a lot of entertainment in the strong wind . Visibility was still minimal and navigation stops had to be made frequently ; on several occasions , Laurent had to be prevented from lurching off in entirely the wrong direction . The caped crusaders Eventually the mist began to lift in the strong wind and we stopped to fill - up with water ; at this point Laurent struck off on his own as he still had much further to walk than us - his two - stage day would take I m to the village of la Pierre St - martin via the V ron route . We saw I m in the distance a little later , heading in the wrong direction ; there was nothing we could do , so we just hoped that he 'd get back on course . We also managed to overshoot our path and had to climb steeply to rejoin it . Crossing the Port de Belhay ( 1,732m ) we were back into the mist and navigation became fraught once again ; by this point we 'd been walking for around ten hours and had ascended some twelve hundred metres with only a couple of short breaks . We were both dog - tired and trying to stay on course without a path in poor conditions had become mildly stressful . We were both relieved when we eventually found border stone no . 254 , which reassured us that we 'd arrived at the Col de Bimbalette ( 1,677m ) . From here we descended on the Spanish side , following a series of clear paths and then a road to the Refugio Belagua , arriving around 13 hours after leaving the Col Bagargui . Several people had warned us that the Refugio Belagua had been closed for the past couple of years , so we just hoped to find a decent camping pitch in pleasant surroundings and a water supply . No such luck : the Refugio loomed out of the mist like a hulking shipwreck ; an ugly , vandalised and dilapidated brute with a large empty car park next to it . It had started to rain and the wind had picked up . We were shattered and the thought of crawling into our tent amid this world of wet and windy bleakness was not a good one . I scouted around the building and discovered that a reinforced glass panel in a first floor door had been broken in to . We clambered in and discovered that the Refugio had been abandoned in something of a Marie C l ste condition ; tables , chairs and bunks had been left as they were . As we were wandering around exploring the cavernous building we heard hammering on one of the external doors ; peering out of a window we saw a car with an occupant in the car park ; had we been spotted ? What if we had and someone reported us to the Guardia Civil ? We chose to carry on regardless , hung up our wet stuff to dry and cooked up what remained of our dinner rations . Exhausted , we installed ourselves in one of the dormitories and settled down to sleep , haunted by the anxious thought that we might I ve all too tangible visitors in the night . The morning was cold , but clear ; we 'd both benefited from an excellent and uninterrupted night 's sleep and felt fit for the day ahead . Once we were under way , we initially had some difficulty in unpicking our path from animal tracks ; we had only occasional , weathered , yellow way - markers to follow , which bore an uncanny resemblance to a lichen that abounds in the area . Unsurprisingly , we made an unscheduled detour early on and had to backtrack for half an hour . Our route took us through some splendid mountain beech forest and up over a small col into a remarkable landscape of weather - fluted karst limestone . The early morning chill had given way to intensifying heat and , leaving the shelter of the beech wood behind us , we sweated our way up to a pass at 1,800 metres . Here , we took advantage of the shelter offered by a few pine trees to eat our lunch and admire the magnificent view across the Arres d 'anies and our first glimpse of the Hautes Pyr n es . Karst landscape near the Arres d 'anies Continuing on our way , we were bereft of way - markers and not entirely confident of the path we were following ; very occasional sightings of weathered yellow he s were cause for some celebration . We were trying to work our way along , up and over a landscape of gently - gradiented gullies chiselled into the limestone plateau as we climbed toward what we hoped was the Col d 'anaye ( 2,011m ) . We lost each other a couple of times when seeking out markers and would have to climb out of the gullies and yell at each other so as not to become separated . It was hot , hard work and we were soon out of water . Scanning the landscape , I eventually spotted what might either be a path or perhaps just another random striation in the limestone , some 30 metres distant . Happily , it was in fact the former and this path led , without equivocation , to the col . From the Col d 'anaye we enjoyed fine views of the cliff - walled southeastern aspect of the Pic d 'anie to the north , the Table des Trois Rois to the south and the pinnacle of le Billare to the east . Gentians near the Col d 'anaye We began our descent into the Vallon d 'anaye, which was rocky at first , but then opened out into a beautiful grassy valley dotted with purple mountain irises , through which quite the loveliest stream trickled . The tinkling of cool , clear , fresh water was a soothing sound to our he d throats and we made for its source . Sat by the stream , his he d - washed socks and undies hanging from a shrub , was Didier , the first person we 'd seen since the previous day . We swapped notes between taking long draughts of sweet , pure water and Didier gave us a tiresome , finger - wagging telling - off for ' burgling ' Refugio Belagua . We gave the man some supplies we did n't need and continued our descent to Lescun , passing a number of robust - looking older people who 'd climbed up the valley for a day 's walk . The path entered woodland and began descending steeply down one side of a gorge ; however , the path was good and we soon bottomed - out at the Plateau de Sanch se . After an hour of gentle descending on a tarmac road , we arrived at Lescun and installed ourselves at the excellent municipal campsite . Irises Matthew would be making the journey down to Pau the next afternoon , then flying back to London the day after . We had chipped a day off the schedule so I planned to take the next day off and hang out in Lescun . In the morning , Matt packed his stuff then we strolled into Lescun and sat writing postcards outside a caf . We learned that the weather was forecast to be good over the next few days and I was suddenly seized by an urgent desire to pack up my kit and be on my way . I think this was in part down to a slight anxiety I felt about spending a week walking on my own . I took my leave of Matt and hastened back to the campsite . I packed up and was on my way within 15 minutes . As I strode purposefully up and away from Lescun , rather than the trepidation I had imagined I might feel , I experienced an unanticipated spike of elation . I took the strain of the extra weight of supplies , cooker and fuel and he d myself into the 1,000 metre ascent to the Col de Pau , pausing only to refill my water - reservoir at the Cabane de Bonaris . It was a truly beautiful afternoon : sunny , but with a breeze and high , fast - moving clouds . From the col , the views south over Spanish sierras and east across the increasingly formidable Hautes Pyr n es were wonderful . The previous summer , when Paul and I walked this stage , we 'd done so in intermittent cloud ; this afternoon , I cantered along the ridge taking in the I ve vistas with my view unhindered . The view southeast from the Col de Pau Mr Joosten reckons on six and three - quarter hours to complete the stage between Lescun and the Refuge d 'arlet, I was there in four and a half . The refuge is situated a little above a beautiful lake and , having he d my tent , I took the waters . The water was cold , but very invigorating and this only served to exacerbate my almost evangelical sense of euphoria . It was a Saturday and there were a fair few folk around the refuge and several others camped around the lake . The refuge is at a confluence of paths and can be he d in a few hours from several directions . I wandered over to the refuge to see if there was a phone signal and was delighted to run into Laurent , who had strode up here from la Pierre St - martin that day . He 'd managed to sort himself out after we 'd seen I m go astray and had had a rest day while awaiting a supply rendezvous . He would be off at 5.30 a.m . again , but I would n't be joining I m this time . Bivouac at the Lac d 'arlet, with the refuge to the left After a good night 's sleep , alone in my two - man tent , I awoke to find the feeling of power in my limbs that I 'd experienced the previous day was still there . I packed - up , ate porridge and set off like a greyhound out of the traps . The previous year Paul and I had walked the stage to Candanchu , but I felt sure that my legs were good to take me further today . After an hour or so the path descended , initially in deep zigzags , some 500 metres to the Pla d 'esp lungu re . Shortly after crossing a stream , I climbed up through beech forest then up out in to the open once more before crossing the Pas de l ' chelle ( 1,775m ) into Spain . Passing around the eastern shore of the Ibon de Astanes , around which there were many tents he d or people in the process of striking camp , I picked up the way - markers of the Gr11 , which the Hrp follows as far as Candanchu . I descended against a steady stream of day - trippers heading up to the lake from the valley below . Where the Gr11 forks away from the main drag up to Ibon de Astanes , I he d on a rock for a bite to eat . A little later , as I made ready to continue on my way , I was greeted by the surreal site of around fifty young Spaniards completely dressed in white processing uphill in a hundred - yard snake . I took this as my cue to depart and set off around the path contouring beneath the Pas d 'aspe, before crossing the Collado de Causiat then descending down to Candanchu . It was hot ; I was sweaty and decided to stop at a caf for a couple of espressos before marching up the road to gather some supplies at the Col du Somport . Loaded up , I trotted the couple of kilometres up the Valle del Ast n road to the eponymous ski resort . I find ski resorts bleak at the best of times , but out of season they I ve me the willies ; I passed through Ast n without touching the sides . Onwards and upwards , I dug into the 450 - odd - metre climb to the Col des Moines ( 2,168m ) , passing the lovely Ibon del Escalar en route . In clear conditions , the Col des Moines provides an ideal viewing platform from which to appreciate the magnificent western aspect of the Pic du Midi d 'ossau ( 2,884 ) , one of the Pyrenees ' best - known mountains with its distinctive , cleft - spired peak . I had set my sights on bivouacking by a shepherd 's hut - the Cabane de Peyreget - on that mountain 's western flank for the night and so began my third descent of the day in the knowledge that , when walking the Hrp , what goes down , must come up . Almost every day of walking the Haute Route involves at least one major climb ; the stages set out in Mr Joosten 's guide usually I ve to deposit you at the foot of the following day 's climb so that it can be dispensed with before the early - afternoon heat sets in . Furthermore , climbing west to east early in the morning usually keeps you in the shade for a good couple of hours . With the Pic du Midi d 'ossau dominating my actual and metaphorical horizons , I gleefully tumbled my way the 500 - odd metres down to the valley below . I came to a halt at the Gave de Bious and re - filled my reservoir . I was hot , sweaty and beginning to feel knackered . The climb up to the Cabane de Peyreget was a very steep 300 metres and I was thoroughly relieved to I ve and remove my 25 - plus kilo pack . There is a narrow winter room for walkers to shelter in at the cabane , but it did n't make for an appealing dormitory , so I he d my tent in front of the building . Sunset lights up the Pic du Midi d 'ossau Later in the evening I he d a file of around thirty teenagers with full packs , labouring up towards the Lac de Peyreget . Even at a distance they looked distinctly British and I thought I recognised them as a school group from Dorset that we 'd encountered at Lescun a couple of nights before . I got into my sleeping bag and settled down to read my book : The Accidental by Ali Smith - a beautifully written and luminously I ve work of fiction . As the sun was setting I looked out of the tent door to see the spire of the Pic du Midi d 'ossau lit - up with such an intense golden - orange glow that it would n't have looked out of place in Colorado . A little later , I turned off my headlamp and wondered , as I drifted off , who had won the World Cup Final ? The Italians ? On penalties ? Outrageous . I 'd gleaned this unfortunate news from the school group who were camped , as I 'd supposed , up at the Lac de Peyreget - a very fine spot for a bivouac . It was another beautifully clear , chilly morning and on completing the rocky ascent to the Col de Peyreget ( 2,300m ) I emerged into bright light as the sun rose above Bala tous and the wall of peaks rising to the east of the Vall e d 'ossau, which was still submerged in shadow almost 1,000 metres below me . By the time I 'd scampered down to the beautifully situated Refuge de Pombie ( 2,032m ) , most of the previous night 's randonneurs had already flown the coop . I continued rapidly on my way , stalking along as if I was in pursuit of something , which in a way I suppose I was . Looking down to the Refuge de Pombie After 1,000 metres of descending , I hit the valley floor , crossed the Gave de Brousset on a footbridge and made the short , sharp climb to the D294 - the road that climbs to the Col de Pourtalet before descending into Spain . There exists a law of equivalence when walking in the mountains ; that is , the longer one descends the more it hurts when you start climbing again . I crossed the road to re - join the path and saw a bloke in his late - fifties with a large Karrimor rucksack sitting disconsolately by the side of the road . He seemed to be waiting for a lift , so I continued on my way . From the bottom of the valley I 'd seen a number of walkers making their way up the first steep stretch of path on the long climb to the Col d 'arrious ( 2,259m ) . They 'd disappeared , along with the path , into woods a hundred metres above the road ; so I made it my mission to see if I could n't reel them all in . I 'd climbed this path twice before and loved its steady and unrelenting steepness because you can really dig into the climb . After a couple of hundred metres , a stream is crossed as you exit the forest and here I filled up with water . On and on up the valley I climbed , loving every minute of the long pull up to the col . By a huge , glacier - deposited boulder , I paused to take in the scenery ; on a clear day such as this , the view back across the valley to the Pic du Midi d 'ossau is sublime . Before it he s the Col d 'arrious, the path crosses a false col . Here I caught up with a couple of fifty - something English blokes from Gloucestershire - barry and Roger ; it transpired that the chap I 'd seen on the road was their mate Marcus who 'd lacerated his big toe on a rock outside the Refuge de Pombie the previous evening . Unable to continue , he 'd opted to hitch down the valley to civilisation , let his toe heal for a few days then meet up with his mates again in Gavarnie . As we he d the col , Barry asked me somewhat tremulously whether I 'd be walking to the next staging post - the Refuge d 'arr moulit - via the Passage d 'orteig or by means of the I ve route . The Passage is a narrow path chiselled out of a steep rock face and secured with steel cables ; I 'd crossed it with Paul in poor visibility the previous summer and it is mildly vertiginous though not so fearsome as Mr Joosten would have readers of his guide - such as Barry - believe . I imparted this view to Barry and headed for the Passage while Roger and he paused at the col . As it turned out , on this clear , sunny day the Passage was actually less intimidating than when we had n't been able to see the drop below us . The slightly airy passage d 'orteig Having nimbly traversed the Passage , I hopped , skipped and jumped my way down through the bouldery landscape to the charmingly situated Refuge d 'arr moulit . The refuge looks out over the largest of the Lacs d 'arr moulit to the amphitheatre - like northern flank of the Pic d 'arriel. It 's a wonderful spot to rest and contemplate the uncomplicated beauty of the Pyrenees , but the day 's tranquillity was rather excitingly interrupted by the buffeting squall and sonorous throbbing of rotor - blades as the refuge supply helicopter thud - thudded to - and - fro with its charged cargo net dangling like prey from a raptor 's talons . Each time the net was landed and unhooked , a militia composed of refuge staff and communally spirited randonneurs swarmed over the pile of crates and swiftly he d them to the refuge 's interior . Meanwhile , I basked lizard - like in the sun on a broad , smooth rock near the lake 's edge purposefully working my way through a lunch of bread , cheese , chorizo and chocolate , pausing only to lie flat and hang on to my hat each time the helicopter swept up behind the refuge . Supply helicopter at the Refuge d 'arremoulit After collecting water , I set off in the immoderate early - afternoon heat . For the next section , I had decided to take a variant from the main Hrp route , which climbs to the Col du Palas , traverses to the Porte du Lavadan then descends nearly 600 metres to the Refuge de Larribet . I 'd taken this route with Paul the previous summer and although it 's a truly spectacular section of the walk , the long , rocky descent to the refuge is an absolute ball - breaker and I felt at liberty to I ve it a miss this time around . Instead , following the variante sud , I headed for the Col d 'arr moulit and the Spanish frontier . The heat was intense and the sunlight dazzled as I climbed up through a boulder field of giant white rocks . I followed cairn - markers up through the rocky tumult , but soon realised that there were at least two competing routes as I found myself zigzagging back and forth . Cursing the pesky cairn - builders and struggling with chorizo - related indigestion , I sweated my way up to the col . The pass offered a splendid prospect to the east and south ; beneath me shimmered the lovely Lacs d 'arriel - though I had reason to be a bit taken aback by the size of them . A few years previously , together with my mates Steve , Andy , Dan and Rich , we 'd crossed these lakes when they 'd still been snow - covered in late May . Now , from my vantage point , it was are nt that we 'd taken a huge risk crossing what at that time of year would have been a fragile snow - bridge across the lakes . We could easily have caused a collapse , with inevitably dire consequences . Looking down on the Lacs d 'arriel from the Col de Palas The 200 metre descent to the lakes was rocky and precipitous , but once down I spent a relatively relaxing couple of hours contouring around the southern flank of Bala tous to the Refugio de Respomuso , he d a few hundred metres above the dammed Embalse de Respomuso , for which it is named . I was hot , knackered and very thirsty when I dumped my pack in front of the refuge ; I knew I 'd made the right decision not to I m for Larribet . There were a number of walkers relaxing under the refuge 's shaded porch , some Brits and a charming Canadian family , so I hung around with these folk for a bit swapping walkers ' tales . After a while , I felt much recovered ; I shouldered my pack and walked the half kilometre east to a small and perfectly formed lake and he d my tent . The Canadians soon arrived and we all had a cold but hugely refreshing dip in the lake . That night , I slept very well indeed . Up at first light , I breakfasted , struck camp and was soon making my way in the sharp morning air . Past the Embalse de Campoplano , the path began the climb to the Col de la Fache ( 2,664m ) . I passed a couple of young Spanish men walking separately on the way up and fell in to conversation with each of them . The path crossed a false col and climbed above a small lake with a miniature iceberg in it before gaining the col and with it the morning sun from the east . Another beautiful day . One of the Spanish lads headed for the peak of the Grande Fache ( 3,005 ) , while Davide and I began a rapid though scenic 800 metre descent to the Refuge Wallon . Davide had been walking the Hrp since Roncevalles and aimed to continue as far as time and a dodgy knee would allow . I virtually ran most of the way to Wallon and had a snack while Davide caught up ; the refuge is a fine building in a very beautiful situation though it somehow manages to be utterly uninviting . Perhaps it has bad Feng Shui . A short distance from the refuge , we crossed the Gave de Marcadau by means of a footbridge and began the 700 metre climb up the valley through which the Gave d 'arratille descends . After a while , Davide began to drop back so I waved my acknowledgement that I 'd see I m later on . The path crosses expanses of he d - smoothed rock and climbs on up and over large boulders before arriving at the entirely picturesque Lac d 'arratille. Having seen no one on the way up , I was rather surprised to see around a dozen people , some of whom were fishing , dotted around the lake in pairs or alone . Past the lake , the path began to climb steeply in its final push towards the col . Crossing the col , I exited into the Valle de Ara and followed the path that contours north - east around the head of the valley . The path crossed a couple of small snowfield remnants and halfway across the first I lost my feet from under me and thumped on to the wet snow , though happily without slipping too far . I was a little more cautious on the second . Eventually the path climbs steeply up to the Col des Mulets ( 2,591m ) and from here I turned to see Davide in the distance , his red jacket giving I m away as he crossed the first snowfield . There was a stiffening breeze so I decided to descend the steep 400 - odd metres to the Vall e de la Gaube . The valley sits beneath the imposing , glaciated north face of Vignemale ( 3,298m ) . It 's a beautiful and much frequented spot ; the Gr10 comes up the valley and , along with the Hrp , crosses the Hourquette de Ossau ( 2,734m ) before descending to Gavarnie . At this time of year , the nearby Refuge des Oulettes de Gaube is busy with day - trippers , Gr10 walkers , climbers and even the occasional Hrp candidate . There were already a few people camped on the valley floor , so I followed suit , having decided that I 'd had enough for one day ; besides , the weather was beginning to look a bit unpredictable . The north face of Vignemale Having sorted my camping spot out , I wandered over to the refuge and met up with Davide . We chatted and had a couple of small beers ; he revealed to me that back home in Madrid he was a policeman - in a manner that suggested he was used to I ve responses . I wondered why that should be the case when he was obviously such a decent bloke . He went on to tell me that he had been on duty on the morning of March 11 th 2004 , when 191 people had been murdered by terrorist bombers at Madrid 's Atocha railway station . It was obvious that he 'd had a terrible time of it . We talked for a while and Davide said that he would I m to depart at first light the next day . I headed back to my tent and cooked my dinner under the scrutiny of a not - characteristically - shy marmot lounging on some rocks a dozen yards away . It began to rain for the first time in days ; I zipped up my tent and shut out Hrp - world for another night . Bold marmot I was up early next morning , though not early enough to catch Davide who I would n't encounter again . The morning was cool in the shade and , once I 'd saddled - up , I dug into the deeply zigzagging 500 metre climb to the Hourquette d 'ossoue ( 2,734m ) , warming myself with the exertion . With each switchback to the south , I was confronted with Vignemale 's north face - its upper he s suffused with morning sunshine . The clarity of the light subverted perspective , bringing the mountain startlingly close . In good conditions , the climb up to the Hourquette ( steep mountain pass ) offers one of the finest mountain - views going . The view from the Hourquette also offers fine views of Vignemale as well as the first glimpse of the towering Cirque de Gavarnie to the east . At the splendid Refuge de Bayssellance , around 100 metres below and west of the Hourquette , I filled up with water and had a pause to enjoy the beautiful view and the warm sunlight on my face . The refuge had already disgorged the previous night 's complement of walkers and climbers , some of whom I could see making their way up to the Petit Vignemale ( 3032m ) - a subsidiary peak of the main attraction . From the refuge , the path descends 800 metres rather precipitously to a plateau , winding above the Gave d 'ossoue on its way down . I passed a number of climbers on their way up , who would most likely have camped on the plateau the previous night . Reaching the plateau , I walked to its eastern end and here crossed the Barrage d 'ossoue dam . The walk from here to Gavarnie takes around three hours and is straightforward with 500 metres descent and little height gain . However , because my thoughts were on completing the second section of the Hrp , having a rest for a couple of days and meeting up with Fiona - as well as the more immediate prospect of fresh food and a shower - i wanted to get it over with ; for this reason the walking felt quite tiring , especially because the heat mounted oppressively as I descended . I was glad to I ve in Gavarnie and make my way along the main street , which was a - bustle with summer visitors - tourists and catholic pilgrims on a day trip from nearby Lourdes as well as the occasional sun - dried walker like myself ; down from the hills and wearing an expression like a flamingo caught in the penguin enclosure at the zoo . I was knackered , but in an extremely good mood when I arrived at Camping de l 'auberge at the southern end of the village . I love this campsite , it 's friendly , cheap , well - facilitied in a ramshackle way and the view of the Cirque de Gavarnie has to be one of the best campsite prospects in the world . I pitched - up , showered , shaved and laundered and then sauntered in to ' town ' for provisions . In the evening , I cooked and consumed a huge and very tasty ratatouille and he d it down with a few plastic mugfuls of Bordeaux . Happy , stuffed , content , I crawled into my sleeping bag and slept the sleep of the dead . The Cirque de Gavarnie by moonlight The next few days were holiday . The following morning , I he d down to the spa town of Luz Saint - sauveur to watch the Tour de France pass through ( two hours of support and merchandise vehicles - la Caravane - followed by a 20 second , Technicolor blur of bicycles and lycra ) and to buy some new boots as my old pair had recently become the opposite of waterproof . I tried the new boots out the next day by striding 1,400 metres up and down I m n ( 2,801m ) - a peak with spectacular views of the Cirque de Gavarnie - and , happily , I developed no blisters . The day after that , I he d down to Luz again to meet Fiona . We stayed the night at the formerly - grand - looking Hotel Panoramic et des Bains and enjoyed a good dinner sat on the hotel 's terrace . In the morning , we shopped for supplies for the days ahead before hitching back to Gavarnie where we would be staying for the next couple of nights at the Hotel L 'astazou ( named for one of the Cirque 's 3,000 metre peaks ) . Like many French hotels , L 'astazou is a symphony in chintz , but the proprietor , Mme Gaby - a chain - smoking femme d 'un certain age , with a wit as dry as the Sirocco - is a wonderful cook and we took advantage of her culinary skills in an attempt to stock up on calories for our imminent exertions . In view of our impending seven - day walk to Salardu , we thought it prudent to have a practice - run for Fiona to limber - up and on our last day off we scuttled up and down I m n again . Fiona managed this no problem at all and so we spent our last evening enjoying dinner chez Mme Gaby and looking forward to the epic walk that lay ahead of us . View of L 'astazou from I m n From Gavarnie , the Hrp climbs south - east for three hours , in steep zigzags at first , past the Refuge des Espuguettes ( 2,027m ) and on up to the Hourquette d 'alans at 2,430 metres . The route from Gavarnie shares the same path as the climb to I m n , until a fork in the path 200 metres below the Hourquette , so it was all beginning to be very familiar , although no less enjoyable for that . As we climbed to the Hourquette , I fell into conversation with an indigenous teacher who had brought his class out to the mountains for a couple of days ; his charges puffing their way determinedly up the steep incline . Griffon vultures , common to this region of the Pyrenees , wheeled above us , perhaps hopeful that one of the children might expire , undetected , behind a rock . It was really hot as we descended the Vall e d 'estaub and we were getting through a lot of water . Happily , the path follows the course of a stream that feeds into the Gave de Estaub , so we were able to keep stocked up . The path continued north - east down the valley until it passed the dammed Lac des Gloriettes . From here we continued descending on a small road until it intersected with the D922 , where we turned south - east and traipsed several kilometres up the tarmac on a slight incline to the hamlet of H as ( 1,500m ) . Just the other side of H as is the Auberge Le Refuge , which has rooms , a camping barn and camping area . We opted for the latter , but took shelter in the barn as a sudden deluge struck . We were soon driven out though , when a party of French walkers and their ber - jolly guide ( ' ronfleurs la - bas ! ' ) arrived . We were knackered and it was wet , however , we ran into the Gloucestershire Three - barry and Roger , now happily reunited with Marcus - who were also camping at Le Refuge and on their recommendation we went to eat at the auberge back in the village . The food , including a I ve beef casserole , was great and significantly restored us ; so , as we tottered our way back to the tent for the night , our esprit de corps was good . We woke up to clear skies in the morning , struck camp and made our way up and away from H as on the first section of the morning 's 1,100 metre climb . I was fully recovered from the previous day , though Fiona was uncharacteristically lagging behind . I took some of the weight from her pack and we continued on up in the gathering heat . After a slight navigational blip - re - descending for 100 metres - before ascertaining that we were on the right path after all - we arrived at the Cabane d 'aguillous ( 2,320m ) where we ate and rested for a short while before striking out for the Hourquette de H as ( 2,608m ) on the I ve Cr te des Aguillous . We made our way across the rocky landscape and on up to the Hourquette with the sun beating down on us . The views from the pass were magnificent and we stood and admired the prospect before zigzagging our way 300 metres down the steep east side of the col . Fiona was lagging again on the way down and I noticed that she was looking weary and a little unhappy , however , I was n't too concerned as I thought we would be less than two hours from our destination at the Lacs de Barroude , without too much climbing ahead . Fiona on the Hourquette de Heas As it transpired , the next couple of hours involved a slog up to one pass on a gradual but energy - sapping incline followed by a second after a short descent . I was tired when the Refuge de Barroude eventually came into view , but by the time Fiona took her pack off she was exhausted . I he d the tent above one of the lakes , against the I ve backdrop of the Barroude wall rock face and Fiona went to recover with a hot drink and some chocolate in the refuge . When I went to join her , she was literally speechless with fatigue ; I was now worried about her and wondered if the Hrp might be proving to be all a bit too much for her . In the morning we would have to see how she was feeling and make a decision as to what to do then . Shortly after dawn it became are nt that Fiona was much recovered as she refused to countenance yet more porridge for breakfast , insisting instead that we would go to the refuge and seek something more protein - based . Although they 'd already made breakfast for the few walkers who 'd stayed the night , the very lovely couple running the refuge made us a marvellous bacon omelette , which was a vastly superior option to yet more porridge . No contest . The weather was quite blowy and a little unsettled and seemed that it could go either way as we set off on the gradual 160 metre climb to the Port de Barroude ( 2,535m ) where we would cross into Spain . Although Fiona seemed fully recovered , we felt it prudent to have an easier day and take advantage of the facilities on offer in Parzan situated some 1,400 metres below the pass in the Valle de Barrosa and around three and a half hour 's walk away . The descent to the valley floor was steep at first then eased somewhat before reaching and then crossing the Rio Barrosa at around 1,700 metres . We passed a couple of Dutch lads whom we 'd met at the Refuge the previous evening and chatted with them a short while before continuing on down the valley through a mixture of deciduous and coniferous forest . Eventually the path became a metalled track , which soon delivered us on to the A 138 road linking the Valle de Bielsa with the Vall e d 'aure to the north via the Bielsa tunnel . The Barroude Wall and the Lacs de Barroude We turned south and began the gentle 5km tarmac descent to Parzan ; rain threatened , but we were n't too concerned as we 'd phoned ahead to book ourselves a habitaci n for the night in a family home in the village . Just as we arrived at Parzan , the rain came hissing and splattering down in a sudden downpour . We skipped frantically about trying to find the right habit cion and were more than a little damp before we located the house of Maria Lueros Ferrer . The house was immaculate and we constituted a slightly worrying prospect for the house - proud owner ; however , we were shown to our room without too much fuss and we set about luxuriating in our clean , dry environment . The rain stopped and , after a bath , we headed down to the road where there was a service station , hotel , caf and shop to gather supplies and have a coffee . We encountered the he d Dutch boys and told them that we were staying in the village , but with an air of determined desperation they insisted that they would be continuing on up and out of Parzan on the Hrp later in the afternoon even though it looked extremely likely that more heavy rain was on the way . We admired their stoicism and had another coffee . That evening we went to the hotel restaurant and were subjected to the sorriest excuse for a meal that either of us had experienced in a long time , served with an offhandedness verging on the hostile . After registering our disgust , we returned to our lovely habitaci n . A little later , we were hanging out of the window enjoying the cool night air when a sudden , sharp crack and flash of forked lightning rent the sepulchral sky , closely followed by the tumbling rumble of thunder . Then , as thunder and lightning sparked and echoed around the valley , it began to rain with an intensity I 've never before experienced , not even during the monsoon season in Nepal . Stinging , fat droplets hissed and slapped against roof tiles , walls and cobble stones and sluiced into gurgling gutters and drains . It was wonderful to watch this display of elemental energy from the shelter of our room - we really had chosen the right night to eschew the tent - but we were a bit concerned for the welfare of the Dutch boys under canvas on the mountainside . We were up before first light and the morning dawned cold and clear in the he d - washed sky as we quit our habitaci n . The morning 's walk involved a protracted 1,200 metre climb to the Paso de los Caballos ( 2,326m ) , including 11 kilometres on a dirt road , so we hoped to get as much of this done as we could before the sun rose over the pass and the heat of the day mounted . We kept an eye out for the Dutch boys , but they had probably walked on for a few hours the previous afternoon . The dirt road climbed steadily alongside the Barranco de Urdiceto and it was very agreeable walking in the cool morning air . Eventually , the track delivered us to the Urdiceto hydro - power station and we continued on a smaller track , eventually zigzagging up to the pass . The path contoured above the gully of the Barranco de Solana for a while and just before it started to descend into the valley through which the Barranco to Montarrugeos runs , we caught up with the Dutch boys who were resting and drying out . Their tent had protected them from the worst of the rain , but I ve dampness had worked its way into their he s and sleeping bags . However , they seemed in good spirits and the fact that it was a beautiful sunny day must have helped . Descending the valley of the Barranco de Montarrugeos We carried on our way down the valley , the path upping and downing , crossing streams swollen with the previous night 's rain and winding its way through copses of mountain beech . We passed a large , lost group of Spanish teenagers who asked for directions and we rather misanthropically hoped that the campsite we aimed to I ve at in a couple of hours was n't occupied by similarly large groups of teenagers as this would hold serious implications for our night 's sleep . It was a beautiful afternoon and we continued on down the valley , pausing to pick and eat large quantities of sweet wild raspberries . Eventually the path delivered us into the Valle de Gistain and we turned north following a track that ran parallel to the Rio Cinqueta . After a short distance a campsite was evident through the trees between us and the river , but horror of horrors : there were a number of marquees and large tents and many teenagers running around . As we neared the site entrance , our disappointment was compounded by the sight and sound of several hundred teenagers sat around trestle tables on which they banged metal plates in time to their chanting of some anthem or other . The whole spectacle put us in mind of a young fascist summer camp . It was obvious that staying here would not be a good idea , so we carried on disconsolately on our way , imagining that we would wild camp higher up the valley . However , a few hundred yards further on Camping Forcallo came into view ; the site we had just passed was in fact a youth summer camp . Camping Forcallo has a lovely situation , with a fine view of the buckled strata forming the west face of Pico de Posets ( 3,375 ) , the second highest peak in the Pyrenees . We he d the tent , showered , then sat enjoying the afternoon sun in the shade of a few small trees . We had had a thoroughly relaxing evening , so much so that we were a little tardy leaving in the morning . Fiona spent rather a while enjoying a shower while I struck camp and as a result I was miffed that we were leaving late . I am aware of my tendency to be a bit of a bossy - boots on walking trips ; in fact sergeant - major Edwards is one of the politer nicknames I 've been awarded by my good friends Andy and Steve . Coincidentally , my father was actually a regimental sergeant - major for part of his army career , so perhaps it 's genetic . Anyway , I failed to hide my displeasure from Fiona and we were in a sulk with each other as we headed up the valley past the beautifully situated Refugio de Viados surrounded by meadows sparkling with dew in the soft morning sunlight . We had decided that from Viados we would take a three - day variant route , which co - opted the Gr11 as far as Hospital de Viehla . This would avoid the most difficult section of the Hrp , which involves difficult terrain , several high passes with steep scree and rock slopes as well as snowfields . I did n't want to attempt this section with Fiona as I felt it might be too tough and scary for her and I felt a keen sense of responsibility for her welfare . Furthermore , in essence , the reason we were here was to enjoy a walk not to undergo an ordeal . As we headed northeast up the valley of the Rio d 'a es Cruses , I thought it best that we resolve our sulk . I suggested this to Fiona and apologised for being testy about our late departure , she responded to this with a pout and the declaration that she was n't ' a boy scout '. I agreed with her acute observation and pointed out that leaving early meant that we avoided too much climbing in the heat and that there was greater risk of storms later in the day . Having defused our mutual sulk , we crossed the confluence of the three streams forming the Rio Cinqueta d 'a es Cruses ( 2,080m ) and began the steep 500m haul up to the Puerto de Gistain ( 2,572m ) . When we had gained the pass , we paused to enjoy the view of the Valle de Estos opening out beneath us and of the mountains to our east , including the monolithic Maladeta massif . The first section of the descent to the floor of the valley was formed by an I ve scree slope which we rapidly skittered down before our path led us into a meadow festooned with purple mountain irises and blue gentians . A small stream , which would feed into the Rio de Estos , emerged tinkling and sparkling from its subterranean lair , so we sat down beside it and brewed some tea on the trangia . It had become exceptionally hot , so we did n't linger too long , but continued on down the valley past the Refugio de Estos - which was pullulating with Spanish families - and on until , at length , we emerged into the Valle de Benasque and descended to Camping Aneto , a very large , but perfectly agreeable venue for every conceivable form of non - static accommodation . Descending the scree slope to the Valle de Estos Once we had the tent up , I he d the few kilometres down the valley to Benasque for supplies . I bought lots of fresh everything , but the one thing I could n't find was gas , which we were running short of . Back at the campsite , we had leisurely showers followed by a splendid ratatouille and a table spoon too much wine . The morning followed the he d pattern of clear skies and coolness in the shade . We set off in good time and walked around a reservoir through some woods , before picking up the track road which climbed very gradually for a couple of hours , mostly in the welcome shade of trees . We cantered happily along , playing numerous games of Botticelli - where you each think of someone famous or infamous and then have to deduce their identity through asking questions that can be answered with a yes or a no . The only other person we encountered was a tall , studious - looking German chap who was photographing flowers and who scampered off each time we caught up with I m as if he feared we might force I m into some form of social interaction . The track continued as far as the Refugio de Coronas , a basic , unstaffed hut . Here , we sat in a beautiful wooded glade by the Barranco de Vallibierna and had some lunch . We then continued on up through a rocky , wooded landscape and arrived at a beautiful plateau - the Pleta de Llosas - surrounded by old pine trees and looking on to the southern aspect of the Maladeta massif . The Barranco de Llosas cascaded down the rocky channel of its own making , filling several plunge pools on its way . The Pleta presented an enchanting prospect for pitching the tent , but it was still relatively early and we had our sights set on some lakes an hour or so and 200 metres climb to the east . The Pleta de Llosas It was a sweltering afternoon and after steering our way around the first of the Lagos de Vallibierna , we found ourselves having to negotiate a field of huge boulders , which made for tiring work in the heat . Eventually we emerged by the second of the lakes and we knew right away that it had been worth the extra effort . It is a beautiful spot and we quickly he d our tent in the shelter of a rocky outcrop before stripping off and plunging into the breathtakingly cold lake . After swimming , we dried off in the sun and cooked some food , wary that our gas might run out very soon . A while later , after digesting our staple rice and tuna special , we went for another I m and noticed that some other people had he d their tent on the other side of the lake . Once we 'd dried off and dressed , we sauntered around to their side of the lake for a chat . They were a young German couple who had spent a few days walking on the Hrp , but unusually they were walking from east to west . They planned to finish at Benasque the following day ; however , they could n't be persuaded to sell their remaining gas to us even though they would have no further use for it . After an excellent night 's sleep , we struck camp and , having used the last of our gas brewing tea and making porridge , we battered our way a few hundred metres up the rocky slope to the Collado de Vallibierna ( 2,710m ) . At the top we encountered another German couple who seemed to have bivouacked on the col overnight . They were also heading west . Fiona observed that perhaps this was because deep in the German subconscious lies the impulse to flee the advancing Russians . Or perhaps they do n't want anyone to think they 're going to invade . Anyway , whatever the reasons for this contrariness , these particular Germans did n't want to sell us their gas either . We descended a couple of hundred metres , crossed a stream and climbed a little to the Lago de Cap de Llauset , which we passed around before climbing a little more to the Coll de Rio Bueno ( 2,520m ) , from where we looked down on the four sunlit Lagos de Rio Bueno glittering beneath us . The path down the eastern slope of the col was steep , rocky and a little precarious ; the ' path ' around the lakes existed only as a concept marked out across the rocky terrain by a series of red and white Gr11 waymarkers . Beyond the fourth lake we descended to a large open area containing three more lakes : the Lagos de Anglios ; we really were in the lake district of the Pyrenees . We he d next to the most easterly of the lakes for a bite to eat , but our notions of going for a refreshing I m had disappeared with the sun behind the clouds . Looking down on the Lagos de Rio Bueno After a rest , we began the 800 metre descent through the Valle de Salenques to join the N230 road which we would follow north to the Hospital de Vielha , our I ve for the day . The descent was fairly gentle at first , following the Barranco de Anglios down through pine trees and alpenrose , but the path then tipped away steeply down a scree slope and entered a forest where it slalomed precipitously through the trees . Both stream and path eventually he d the floor of the valley where the former merged with the Rio de Salenques and the latter followed its right bank . The path , now broader and easier underfoot , continued descending interminably and I was becoming very weary . We paused for a rest next to the river where the coruscations of water , sand and shingle had carved a broad , shallow plunge pool from the rock . Fiona was in the water in no time and persuaded me that this would be the best remedy for my weariness . With reservations I followed her advice , but once I 'd submerged myself I felt considerably restored . On reflection , I was probably suffering from the I ve effects of the heat and hauling a heavy pack up and over high passes every day . Still , I was feeling a lot better after my hydro - therapy , so we shouldered our packs , descended to the road and strode the final six kilometres or so through woodland on paths running parallel to the road . Arrival at Hospital de Viehla marks the halfway point in the Hrp traverse ; it provides a neat equation : to finish the walk you have to do again roughly what you 've done so far and that really does provide some perspective . Weighing such percentages was an ambulatory preoccupation for this Hrp walker at least . The refuge at Hospital de Vielha 3 is situated near the Vielha road tunnel where ( in 2006 ) there is also a huge construction site for a new tunnel . When we arrived , hot , dusty and thirsty , the refuge was closed and there were a large number of walkers basking in the shade outside , including several large French and Spanish groups . We fell into conversation with four sympatico Belgians who had just he d the ' difficult ' four - day section of the Hrp between Viados and here . Tough , but not too difficult , was their I ve opinion . Next time , next time . On mentioning that we were out of gas , they produced a full canister and gave it to us . The refuge eventually opened and we had a shower , bought the Belgians a beer and then sat down for a decent dinner with 40 other walkers . The dormitory was packed , had low ceilings and no windows , so there was no question : we would wander up the path and find a camping spot for the night . We found a good spot near the river , next to an abandoned concrete mill building and in the morning we ' enjoyed ' an invigorating wash in the icy water . The morning was fine again and we set off early . The Gr11 path crossed a few streams and climbed gradually up through a mixed forest of oak , beech and pine trees before crossing a clearing and climbing north in steep zigzags . The path then bent to the north - east and led us up to the Port de Rius ( 2,320m ) ; from here we downed and upped a little before contouring above the large and I ve Estany Rius . We crossed the lake 's eastern outflow , abandoning the Gr11 , and climbed a little , following cairns over an otherworldly landscape of pools and large he d - polished rocks . The elongated body of water that is the Estany Tort de Rius soon came into view and we continued following cairns south - east around the lake . Half way along , we caught up with the Belgians , who had left the refuge very early after a not very good night 's sleep . Near the Estany Tort de Rius After catching frogs with our Flemish friends awhile , we continued on our way , climbing above the lake 's southeastern end to the Collado d 'estany de Mar ( 2,468m ) , Here , we clambered on to a large boulder and looked down at the magnificent Estany de Mar shimmering miraculously in its rock - walled caldera beneath us . Surrounded by jagged mountain ridges , the lake is a ragged - edged ellipse around one and a half kilometres in length and a third as wide with a sizeable island sitting plumb in its middle ; from above , the water is an impassive , deep night - sky blue This really is one of the finest views in all the Pyrenees - or anywhere at all - and it was worth every bit of the twenty day walk it took to get here and marvel at it . Along with the Belgians , we made the very precipitous and occasionally alarming descent to the lake . When we he d the western - most tip of the lake , our companions continued on their way , but we stopped for a brief , thrilling I m followed by a lunch of bread , cheese and saucisson he d down with tea . Cloud had been gradually bubbling over the ridge to the west and as we made a second brew - going wild with our new gas canister - there was a guttural rumble of thunder followed by a whip - crack flash of lightning . A few fat drops of rain splattered down and we needed no further prompting to pull on our waterproofs and make ourselves scarce . Tea in the Pyrenees The boulder - scattered shelf of ground above the south - eastern edge of the Estany de Mar made for difficult walking terrain ; however , we were more preoccupied with the Wagnerian son et lumi re show being performed amid the lake 's crown of peaks . It was raining , but not enough to spoil our enjoyment of the elemental spectacle . At the lake 's north - eastern end , we could see down to the dammed Estany de la Restanca and the eponymous refuge sitting at its eastern edge . The path zigzagged steeply down to a small grassy plateau , crossing several small streams in spate . We descended again to the edge of the lake and walked around to the refuge . There were quite a few people about ; Restanca is a large and very popular refuge a short distance from a road connecting it with the Val d 'aran. We bought a cup of coffee and rested for a while , before donning our packs and carrying on up the Gr11 , which climbed steeply , initially in zigzags , next to a stream . After 200 metres or so we he d the top of the climb at the source of the stream - the outflow of the very lovely Estany deth Cap deth Port . We worked our way around to the eastern end of the lake and he d the tent a few feet from the water with splendid views back across the lake to the he d - toothed Serra de Rius ridge . It really is an idyllic spot , marred only by our having to share it with aggressively hungry mosquitoes . After yet another bracing swim , followed by dinner , we enjoyed the spectacle of a flame - hued sunset , which was reflected to spectacular effect by the lake . Sunset with mosquitoes By the time we struck camp in the morning , which yet again was cold and clear , we had he d the unusual spectacle of a stream of walkers filing past the lake on their way up to the col from Refugio Restanca . We joined the queue . It 's an excellent thing that so many people make the effort to come and enjoy the mountain environment , I just wish they would n't all do it when I 'm there . Having enjoyed the I ve solitude of Haute Route walking over the previous weeks , joining a loud and shouty queue of people bustling their way up the path was not an agreeable experience . One young Spanish man we passed was obviously mortified at being overtaken by Fiona , on account of her gender , and huffed , puffed and snorted with effort to reassert his rightful position in the climbing order . Watching I m struggle to overtake a pair of older French women , who were gaily chatting away as they tackled the ascent , was most amusing . At the Coll de Crestada ( 2,475m ) , most of the large number of walkers ahead of us had gathered to admire the splendid view south - east over the Estany des Monges . Some would undoubtedly make the climb north from the col to reach the summit of Montardo ( 2,826m ) . We decided to extricate ourselves from the crowded hubbub and continued on our way ; passing the lakes and crossing one pass after a slight incline , descending steeply , passing between yet more lakes and then climbing more steeply to the Porte de Caldes ( 2,560m ) . This was the last climb of this section of the walk and it was quite a relief to reach the Porte . We rested awhile and enjoyed the view down to the Colom rs lakes , before starting the 550 metre descent to the eponymous refuge situated next to the dammed Estany Major de Colom rs . The area around the small refuge was teeming with day - trippers who had walked up from the nearby road . We he d above the lake and ate the last of our saucisson , bread and cheese as a helicopter buzzed back and forth , ferrying building materials to the site of a new refuge being built further around the lake . After eating we hoisted our packs on and set off on the final furlong to Salardu . Much of this three hour stretch was on the road and again the anticipation of finishing another section had the effect of making both of us feel very weary . The temperature had climbed as we descended and by the time we arrived at Refugi Rosta - a charming and idiosyncratic pension in the Placa Major , the old village centre of Salardu - we were hot , sweaty , dusty and completely knackered . A shower and clean he s did a lot to I ve us , but I was amazed by the reflection of myself in the shower room mirror - i 'd lost a fair bit of weight and I was slightly alarmed by the blue threading of veins which stood out over my ribs and along my limbs . I would happily take advantage of the following days to put some weight back on before starting the next section . Descending from the Porte de Caldes It was now July 25 th and I would be staying in Salardu until the 30 th . Fiona would depart on the 28 th and my friend Paul - a maths teacher and veteran of the previous year 's Lescun - gavarnie walk - would be arriving fresh from the chalk face on the 29 th , the day after the end of term . Salardu makes for an obvious start to a stage of the Hrp because it is in the high mountains , it has all the requisite facilities and it is accessible by road from both France and Spain . The only problem is that neither myself , Fiona nor Paul had been able to find any information in advance on how to get to and from Salardu and Toulouse - where they were flying from and to respectively . My enquiries at French tourist information centres at Gavarnie and Luz Saint Sauveur had been met with Gallic shrugs ranging in intensity from the indifferent to the hostile . Obviously it was a ridiculous thing for me to ask at a French tourist office how I might get to and from somewhere in the Spanish Pyrenees . We discovered that there was a tourist information hut in Salardu , so we made this our first port of call in order to clarify travel arrangements . As we entered the hut , a young woman who had been sitting over the road smoking stood up and followed us in . She adopted a I ve posture in front of the desk , scowled at us in an inquisitorial manner and folded her arms with such ill - concealed disdain that it made the average Gallic shrug seem like a gesture of heartfelt concern and solicitude . Our attempts to explain our needs were hampered by a combination of her manifest impatience and her inability to speak a little French , English , German or even much Spanish . True , the Val d 'aran has its own dialect , but we could n't help feeling that speaking a little French might be a useful skill for someone working in tourist information in a town where the overwhelming majority of visitors are French . Our inability to speak the Aran dialect had clearly upset the young woman and she curled her lip at Fiona 's strategic attempt to communicate in Spanish . Eventually , we managed to get the message across employing a mixture of Esperanto and pictograms and when she finally grasped what it was that we wanted to know the corners of her mouth curled - up and her eyes lit with an expression of triumphant glee . ' no buses to France ' she said . Taxis then ? ' no taxis , not possible '. We left the hut utterly discouraged . However , as we walked down the street , several buses passed in either direction and we noticed that every second house displayed a sign declaring : ' taxi '. Our suspicions were aroused . As it transpires , it 's not easy , but far from impossible to get from Salardu to Toulouse , though it 's more difficult the other way around . From Salardu you can take a bus down the Val d 'aran as far as the village of Les ; from here you can take a taxi or try hitching over the border to the railway station at Montr jeau , which connects with Toulouse . Getting a taxi from Montr jeau to Les , it seems , is not possible . We spent the next few days relaxing , taking gentle walks , foraging for supplies in the nearby ski - resort town of Viehla and eating at every opportunity . 50 yards from Refugi Rosta is a splendid old rustic barn of a restaurant unpromisingly named Deth Bot , but the food is excellent and plentiful . Two nights running we ate generously proportioned starters followed by perfectly cooked steaks the size of cushions . On the third evening Deth Bot was closed so we tried another restaurant , which disappointingly turned out to be a triumph of style over content . The most memorable part of the meal was the menu translations : What we took to be ' val d 'aran style steak in pepper sauce ', became ' beefsteak in sauce and pepper seeds brings to the former one in the valley of they plough '. On the morning of the 28 th , Fiona left for Toulouse . Her taxi was fantastically late and apparently drove at hair - whitening speed all the way to Montr jeau . The following day , Paul arrived in the afternoon having he d all the way from Montr jeau with all manner of conceivable convolutions en route . He arrived carrying the heaviest rucksack I 've ever tried to lift , which was jammed to bursting point with food supplies for the next leg of the walk . We would need to carry provisions for eight days to get us to l 'hospitalet-pr s-l 'andorre. I was very happy to see Paul , he had been excellent company on our ten - day walk in the Pyrenees the previous summer and , furthermore , he is a fit , strong walker . Despite the fact that he 'd been a bit unwell the previous week and had had almost no sleep the night before due to end of term celebrations , I felt sure that we 'd make good progress during the days ahead . We split the supplies and repacked our rucksacks ; eight days ' food weighs a lot and after sharing the weight of the tent , trangia , fuel and maps etcetera , our fully - laden packs he d in the region of 30 kilos apiece . That evening we had our dinner and a few drinks at Deth Bot and talked excitedly about the walk ahead of us . The first day 's walk from Salardu to Alos de Isil is the longest single stage of the Hrp and it involves 1,500 metres ascent and the same descent , rough terrain in places and a steep climb to the Tuc de Marimanya ( 2,662m ) . Hauling 30 kilos over this little lot would be very challenging , but we felt equal to the task , especially after a couple of beers sat in our comfortable chairs . Shortly before we left , three English chaps arrived for a drink and we had a brief chat with them . They were also walking the Hrp and , like us , were making for Alos de Isil the following day . The youngest of the three , Richard , was around my age and Ian and John looked to be in their early sixties . They were staying at a hostel up the road and had come for a drink after dinner , which they 'd eaten in the company of 60 Spaniards who were on a coach - supported walking holiday . We agreed that we 'd likely encounter each other tomorrow , he d them goodnight and went in search of a decent amount of sleep . Up before dawn , we left Refugi Rosta as the sky began to lighten , filling our water reservoirs at the fountain in the Placa Major . My pack felt really bloody heavy as we trudged up the road towards the village of Bagergue . En route we passed the hostel where the Spanish walkers were boarding their coaches , thence to be whisked uphill to their point of embarkation for the day . After Bagergue , we took a path that climbed several hundred metres in steep zigzags ; on top of the previous evening 's beers , the weight of the pack and the effort of the climb made me feel nauseous . Paul also looked how I felt . The path eventually joined a gently - gradiented track road at which point we both began to feel a little better and could enjoy the wonderful views of the Maladeta massif to the south - west . The Spanish coach party passed above us on the road , cheating bastards , and we continued on up to the Plan de Beret ( 1,890m ) where we joined the road for the Baqueira - beret ski resort . A short distance along , Paul said that he felt he might be getting a blister . Understatement . In fact he had deep blisters the size of 50 pence pieces on each heel ; we dressed them with moleskin he s as best we could and continued on our way . Paul was a bit put out as he 'd never got blisters with his well worn in Scarpas before , but perhaps the combination of the weight and the steep climb from a standing start had taken his feet by surprise . Paul above the Estanys Rosari Baciver We left the road by the ski station and climbed up to the Estany Baciver ( 2,120m ) on a bouldery route marked with red and white flashes . It was obvious that Paul was in some discomfort with his feet , though he was trying to keep it to himself . We stopped at the lake for a rest and to tend to Paul 's feet again . Approximately one coach load of very excitable Spanish walkers had arrived just before us , having disembarked at the ski resort below . We continued on our way up to the Estanys Rosari Baciver and as the path levelled out , the horseshoe ridge of the Tuc de Marimanya came into view . We knew that our path crossed the peak , but from here it did n't look too daunting ; indeed as we headed towards it , we caught sight of an impressively long file of people making their way along the ridge . We decided that this must be the other coach load of Spanish walkers . We passed to the south of the lakes and began the last steep , bouldery 350 metres of the climb up to the ridge just to the south of the Tuc de Marimanya . From the ridge , we followed a faint track which led us around the eastern side of the ridge and then climbed toward the Tuc . The path became quite tricky to negotiate in places , not least because of the weight and bulk of our packs . We were soon in a steep , exposed position and feeling a bit uncomfortable with our situation . I was just behind Paul when he took hold of a rock the size of a microwave oven with both hands as he tried to swing himself around to another foothold ; the rock pulled loose throwing I m off balance and I instinctively grabbed hold of I m as it leapt outward and bounced down the mountainside in great juddering , rock - cracking arcs . We he d it go and looked at each other , knowing that the rock could easily have taken Paul with it ; as it happened , the rock had grazed his knee as it came away . I 'm sure the pain from his blisters abated for a short while . Paul on the Tuc de Maranmaya We made it to the top without further incident and he d among large rocks for some lunch , watching the Indian file of Spanish walkers snaking east along the Marimanya ridge . The sky was clear and the 360 views of the mountains in every direction were extraordinaryly good . However , the temperature was rising under the midday sun and we still had a long way to go . As were preparing to leave , Richard , who we 'd met the night before , appeared in front of us carrying a large and heavy - looking camera tripod in one hand . He admitted to having carried it all the way from Hendaye , but pointed out that he , Ian and John - whom he had met on the third day of the walk and stayed with since - had sent home their tents , stoves and other camping kit after a few days and had adopted a refuge to refuge approach to tackling the Hrp . Ian and John were making their way up the mountain a little way behind Richard , presumably employing the right track , which - we ascertained from Richard - we had n't : hence the scary and dangerous aspect to our route . We took our leave of Richard and continued on our way east , descending a little down the ridge before climbing to the summit of a peak northeast of the Tuc de Marimanya ( 2,660m ) . From here we continued east along the ridge which , excepting the occasional cairn , was devoid of waymarkers . We were on the lookout for our route down off the ridge to the east and we found a slaloming path descending steeply through rock and scree , which seemed to correspond with what we were searching for . We skittered down the path and after a while realised that we 'd come off the ridge too soon , the Hrp descends to the south - east of the Estany d 'airoto and we had come down to the south - west . We studied the map and saw that it was n't too much of an issue and that we should be able to pick up a path which would take us to the southern end of the lake and we could rejoin the Hrp again near there . The view south from the Tuc de Marinmanya The path we found above the lake was very overgrown and bouldery in sections , but we put our heads down and battered our way along and then steeply down to the end of the lake . We made a beeline for Refugio d 'airoto - a small , unmanned mountain hut nearby . It has a beautiful setting , just above a smaller lake , sheltered by a few trees with a long table , he s and a tap outside . The hut itself has space for around four people . When we arrived , there were a few items of clothing drying in the sun and the sound of male and female laughter made its way up to us from the lake below . It was very hot and bright in this rocky basin and I was a bit concerned that Paul 's nape was n't protected as he was wearing a baseball cap - although he insisted that he was fine - apart from the blisters that is . We filled up with water , glugged a load down and got a brew going on the trangia . We were both a bit knackered and the hut would make an agreeable billet for the night . If it was full , then there was plenty of space to pitch the tent . However , we were both reluctant to stop short on the first day and a rest and cup of tea were doing much to I ve us . The owners of the laundry - a German couple - returned from the lake and we had a chat with them ; they were staying in the hut and seemed quietly pleased when we said we were carrying on and understandably so - who 'd want to share paradise with their lover and two sweaty Englishmen ? Soon , Ian and John rolled up followed a while later by Richard who had been taking pictures . They had seen us descend off the ridge and - big mistake - assumed that we knew where we were going and followed suit . A Spanish Basque couple turned up next so it was becoming a regular social event . As we were chatting away , a rescue helicopter clattered over to the Marimanya ridge , where the large group of Spanish walkers were , and after a couple of minutes clattered off again . I ve minutes later it was back to repeat the process . We thought the most likely scenario was that several of the group had suffered from a combination of the heat and exhaustion . Time to get moving again ; Richard , Ian and John had elected to descend straight to the village of Isil rather than heading up over another pass and then down to its sister - settlement , Alos d 'isil; this would add three or four easy kilometres on tarmac the following day . Paul and I decided to stick to the ' official ' route and headed for the pass . Except that we took the wrong path for the third time that day and ended up following the others down the path to Isil . We had 800 metres to descend and Paul 's blisters were giving I m some serious grief ; Richard gave I m some Compede gel dressings which seemed to help , but I could see that at all was not well with Paul . Uncharacteristically , he was beginning to lag behind and then he stopped to throw - up . I wondered if he 'd got too much sun on his neck , compounded by exhaustion from the strenuous walk with an extremely heavy pack . I 'd spent the previous month doing this kind of walking and though I was fairly inured to it I still felt exhausted by the day 's demands ; Paul , on the other hand , had he d straight into one of the hardest days of the entire Hrp from a standing start . We continued on down the valley ; the others had forged ahead and were planning to find accommodation in Isil for the night . It was difficult carrying on descending knowing that Paul was feeling rough , but we had to find a viable spot to pitch the tent near running water . Eventually we made it all the way down the valley and found a camping spot near the river just a few hundred yards from Isil . I he d water and cooked , but Paul only managed to eat a little before throwing - up again ; the prognosis was n't good . All we could do was sleep on it and see how he felt in the morning , but I really doubted that he 'd be able to continue . Sure enough , Paul was feeling no better the next morning so we decided that he would hitch down the Vall d 'aneu from Isil in search of medication and that with rest he might feel well enough to hitch back up the Vall de Card s the following afternoon to meet me at Refugio Certascan back on the Hrp . This was a good plan ; on one level I felt relieved because the prospect of continuing with Paul while he was sick and afflicted with large blisters was not good ; it 's not a responsibility I would enjoy . However , I would miss having Paul 's company and , furthermore , I would have to carry all the camping kit on my own as well as a week 's provisions . After the series of navigational errors we 'd made the previous day , I was also a bit worried about how I 'd manage on my own in an unfamiliar region of the Pyrenees . We set off down to Isil where Paul and I parted company . I strode the seven or so kilometres up the narrow , winding mountain road through Alos de Isil and on until the Hrp parts company with the road , crosses the Palanca de la Pe a by a footbridge and swarms uphill in a series of steep zigzags . On my way up the road , the hope that I might catch up with Richard , Ian and John had given purpose to my stride ; I guessed that they would have got an earlier start than me , having stayed in a pension or hotel . After zigzagging for a short while , I caught sight of Ian and John above me disappearing into the coniferous forest cloaking the hillside . They were setting a good pace and my pack felt ridiculously heavy , so it cost me an effort to catch up with them . There was no sign of Richard - ian and John told me that he had been suffering from what he thought was a cold for a few days and it had become much worse overnight ; like Paul , he was hoping to get some medication , rest for a while and then catch up in a couple of days . 4 Ian and John on the Coll de la Cornella We chatted a bit as we sweated our way up the path ; I was glad to have their company and enjoyed the timbre and cadence of their Huddersfield accents , which put me in mind of Alan Bennett . Occasionally I 'd walk ahead a little , but we kept together as the path left the forest , crossing a few streams , before zigzagging steeply up to a lovely little tarn . From here , we headed east crossing two false cols and negotiating some difficult , rocky terrain before climbing steeply to the Coll de la Cornella ( 2,485m ) . It was here that Ian mentioned that he and John - who had known each other since childhood and had married sisters - were both 68 years old . For a long time I 'd thought that one could n't expect to take on this order of demanding physical challenge much beyond 50 , but here were two living , breathing contradictions to that assumption . However , Ian and John are both exceptionally fit men who have put in years of serious hill - walking . Both were committed Munroists , Ian having climbed all 277 of Scotland 's 3,000 foot mountains as well as all the subsidiary ' tops '. Ian had also been a fell - runner in younger days . It occurred to me that being out on the hills with the pair of them when they were my age would have made for a challenging experience . We descended the steep scree slope on the eastern side of the ridge and headed for the Estany de Tartera where we stopped for a bite to eat - except for Ian who , it subsequently transpired , had a remarkable capacity for walking all day on breakfast alone . Ian and John soon continued on the route heading for the Coll de Curios , a relatively short climb to our east , while I faffed around with the contents of my pack . Faffing complete , I made a mess of finding the path up to the col under the sceptical gaze of the cows grazing the hillside , who paused in their activity to watch me beetling inefficiently up and down . Eventually , I caught up with Ian and John and , after admiring the views from the Coll de Curios , we continued climbing east until we he d the Coll de Calberante ( 2,610m ) half an hour later . The Estany Major de la Gallina From the col , we looked down on the midnight - blue Estany Major de la Gallina , which lay impassively amid an unusual landscape of rounded , he d - polished rock . We descended steeply to the lake 's edge and followed a path around its northern shore to the outflow . From here we could see the three smaller lakes below and to our north and , just above the northernmost lake , the Refugi Enric Pujol ( 2,290m ) 5 - our destination . Rather than descending to the lakes as Mr Joosten suggests , we kept our height following an assortment of cairns along a spur . I was ahead of the others when I arrived at the point where the spur started to descend , offering a good view of the refuge , which has the appearance of a large Romany caravan without wheels , he d to a large rock with steel cables . As I began the descent toward the refuge , a man appeared on the narrow balcony at the top of the stairs leading to the door . I raised my arm in greeting and he waved back . Strange that I often feel disappointed if I I ve at a refuge or hut only to discover that it 's already occupied . I do n't think its misanthropy exactly , rather it 's knowing that you have to delay relaxing entirely until you 've ascertained whether the company is entirely benign or otherwise . Also , there 's the issue of whether there 'll be enough space for you to cook , eat and sleep in comfort . In fact , Juan - who had also walked from Alos de Isil and was spending two weeks on the Hrp - was on his own , or so I gathered as I speak no Spanish and he spoke no English . The refuge had space for nine people and now that Ian and John had joined us it seemed most unlikely that anyone else would arrive , as it was already past I ve and we 'd seen no other walkers all day . After brewing a cup of tea , I went for an extremely cold and extremely refreshing I m in the lake ; it had been another big walk and I was glad to wash away the sweat and dirt of the last couple of days . I 'd realised that I had more than enough food for the following days - having taken more than half of mine and Paul 's supplies - so I took advantage of Ian and John 's lack of a stove to make them eat some of my rice , tuna and sun - dried tomato stockpile . Somewhat surprisingly , eight young Polish people appeared , having he d from the east , and they proceeded to mill around seeking billets . I had my tent and did n't really fancy trying to sleep in an overcrowded refuge , so I gave my place to one of the Poles and he d my tent on a small parcel of grass just outside . A little later , various members of our transient community he d from the balcony or the area in front of the refuge as the setting sun lit the mountains to the east with an orange glow . Soon after , I turned in . The Refugi Enric Pujol at dawn Shortly after dawn , I emerged from my tent at the same time as Ian and John tip - toed out of the refuge . I foisted some porridge on them then set about striking camp . By the time I 'd packed , my new walking companions had already set off on the 600 metre descent that began the day 's walk . Shafts of light illuminated the refuge as the sun rose behind the he d - toothed mountain ridge to the east . I started the descent , plunging into the cold morning air pooled beneath the I ve reach of the early morning sunlight . I followed the stream flowing out from the lake and where it changed course , cascading precipitously toward the head of a valley , I slithered downhill after it on slippery , he d rocks . The path delivered me to the floor of the valley and continued following the course of the stream - the elaborately named Torrent de la Reia de Mull s - through a beautiful sylvan landscape dotted with pine and birch trees . I quickly built up a head of steam and was sure that I 'd catch up with Ian and John in no time ; in fact I was most of the way down the valley before I even caught sight of them . We emerged from the woods into a clearing then crossed the Riu del Port and entered a birch forest ; our path turned south and contoured along through the forest before dropping a little to the east and delivering us to the beautiful and remarkable hamlet of Noarre . It is remarkable because it has no road access . While I 'd acknowledge the importance and utility of the motorcar in the modern world , I 'm not a fan and I enjoy being away from them , their noise , pollution and the mentality they sometimes foster . So , Noarre was a joy to behold ; as well as being car and road free it is also a very beautiful collection of solid , rustic , stone - built houses and barns gathered in an open field just above the Riu de Noarre . John and I in the hamlet of Noarre I checked my mobile phone for a signal ( i had n't 'd one since Salardu ) and was surprised to find there was one . Several text messages had arrived , including a few from Paul ; the gist of which was that his condition had worsened and , having visited a doctor , he felt he would n't be able to entertain Hrp walking in the immediate future , making it unviable for I m to catch up with me in the time remaining . In short , he was going home . I was n't surprised about his condition and although I was disappointed that we would n't be walking together again on this trip , I was glad that he 'd made the only sensible decision available . He would be no use to either of us on the Hrp while he was ill . I felt a certain sense of liberation from the concern I 'd had about Paul , but having the company of Ian and John probably made that an easier position to assume . We continued on our way , north - east up the valley of the Riu de Noarre ; the path climbed among birch trees and arrived at a small cascade where it ascended in steep zigzags through pine forest , crossing beneath another cascade and climbing a steep grassy slope before eventually arriving at a beautiful marshy plain . Ian and John were some way behind me , but I continued across the plain and on up a steep rocky slope studded with dead trees . The path then made for the Riu dels Guerosso , which it followed upstream past a number of cascades to the Estany Inferior de Guerosso , where I crossed the outflow and climbed steeply east then north to the Estany Mitja de Guerosso and a little higher to Estany Blau de Guerosso . I he d on a rock and tucked into some bread , cheese and saucisson . There was no sign of Ian and John when I he d my lunch break , so I continued east - south - east up the final pull to the Coll de Certascan ( 2,605m ) following a series of small cairns . The col is described by Mr Joosten as ' a small gap in the ridge south of the Pic de Certascan ', however , there were two such gaps above me , either side of a subsidiary peak , and the cairns had disappeared . I could make out a vague path winding up the steeper of the two scree and rock slopes , so I elected to go with that one . It made for a calf - jarring climb and I was relieved to get to the top , that is , until I took a look down the other side . Mr Joosten says that the east side of the col is est but that seemed to me to be a wild understatement . I gazed down the alarmingly precipitous and very long scree slope beyond which a large body of water - the Estany de Certascan - was momentarily visible before the clouds below me engulfed it once more . However , I was still fairly sure that I 'd made the right choice , so I gingerly began the descent keeping my weight back so as not to pitch forward down the very steep , very long scree slope - i was far from sure that I 'd be able to arrest my momentum if I slipped . Standing sideways on to the slope and leaning back , I ' skied ' right to left , diagonally across and down the slope ; it was very exciting and more than a little scary . I ' skied ' into the lee of the rock cliff bounding the scree slope at its northern edge ; from here I was able to descend for some distance on the solid rock at the foot of the cliff . Eventually it became clear that the slope at the foot of the cliffs would soon drop vertically , so , keeping a good distance between myself and the drop , I ' skied ' diagonally across and down the scree once more . Beyond a rocky outcrop , the slope gradually eased and I was no longer in fear for my life as I ' skied ' faster and more directly down the slope . At the foot of the scree run , I noticed a series of red and white waymarkers painted on the rocks running from north - west to south - east and it was immediately clear that here I had intersected with the real path running down from the Coll de Certascan . What had I come down then ? Looking back up the scree slope was even scarier than coming down it , because I ve made it look even steeper from below . I congratulated myself for my cool descent and scolded myself for losing the path yet again , this time with potentially hazardous consequences . Looking back to the scree slope below the Coll de Certascan I followed the ( waymarked ) path down toward the Estany de Certascan crossing and recrossing a stream on the way down . Just before reaching the lake , the path turned south - east and plied a route above its southern shore , eventually dropping off to the Refugi de Certascan , below the lake 's southern end . The wind had picked up and I was glad to I ve at the very charming and well - maintained refuge . Juan had arrived a while earlier and we sat inside together as I tried to explain my ( mis)adventure to I m employing a combination of English , French and sign - language . Though clearly bemused , he nodded along in an encouraging fashion as my story he d its scree - slaloming climax , but apparently he felt no need to add any insights of his own . I went and sat outside for a while and had to fight off the attentions of a large and persistent burro hanging around outside . I assumed that he was used for ferrying supplies up from the road and he assumed that if he applied enough physical and psychological intimidation , I would I ve I m all the food in my rucksack . Ian and John arrived a while later having descended by the proper route and sometime after them a large group of friendly and voluble Spanish Catalans rolled up having spent the day climbing the Pic de Certascan . I had planned to pitch my tent near the refuge , but the wind had become stronger and it had started to rain for the first time in days . Eventually I decided to stay in the refuge as it was so lovely and later that evening I sat with Ian , John and Juan for an I ve and enjoyable meal he d down with several carafes of wine . I would have slept very well that night if it had n't been for the people in the bunks opposite using their headlamps to send text messages in the small hours . This was the first night I 'd legally spent in a refuge since the start of the walk and now I was reminded of the inherent advantages of a tent . I must have got back to sleep , because I was woken at the crack of dawn by the rapid - fire rattle of Catalan clattering around the refuge at a volume more appropriate to the stands of the Camp Nou when F.c . Barcelona are hosting Real Madrid . After breakfast , we loaded up and prepared for the off . Juan was first out of the gates as usual and I departed the refuge shortly after in the company of Ian and John . The gaggle of Catalans loitering outside puffed and gesticulated in astonishment at the size of my rucksack and one man was even moved to heft the pack while it was he d to me , in order to confirm his suspicion that it was far , far too heavy . Still holding my pack , he turned to his comrades and imparted the news that it he d more than was strictly advisable , but that 's just an informed guess . Rather than feeling embarrassed by this public scrutiny , I felt a certain pride . Many long distance path walkers , myself included , are I ve about the weight they carry - my mate Andy once removed the shaft of a plastic disposable razor before allowing it near his pack . Watching I m attempt to shave with the remainder was most entertaining . Travelling light is a secular cult and you often hear middle - aged kit - fetishists , such as myself , boasting about how light their new tent , boots , waterproofs , sleeping bag , etcetera are . Apparently , buying the right kit demonstrates one 's outdoor pursuits acumen . However , just now , I felt that the Catalans were regarding me with respect rather than mocking my over laden condition . I was someone to be reckoned with - the man with the heaviest pack on the Hrp ! The Refuge de Certascan We set off down the path , descending a short way before committing our first navigational error of the day . We were looking for a path that climbed in zigzags to our left and we found one except it did n't quite do what we were expecting it to , so we continued descending to a dirt road . Once we got to the road we could see our error . However , checking the map , we saw that if we followed the dirt road as it contoured southeast then north we would I ve back on the Hrp after three kilometres ; this seemed infinitely preferable to climbing 300 metres back up to the pass we should have taken . After a half - hour yomp we arrived at Estany Romedo de Baix and faffed around a good bit before eventually reuniting ourselves with the Hrp . We crossed the outflow of the lake and descended the valley by the east bank of the Riu de Romedo . At first , the path was vague in places and difficult going underfoot . After descending for half an hour or so we had to cross the river at a point just below a small , beautiful cascade and pick up the path on the opposite bank . The water was knee - deep , very cold and very clear . The river was n't fast moving here and Ian elected to wade straight across in his boots . John and I were a little more circumspect ; we took our boots off , tied the laces together and hung them round our necks then shod our feet in flip - flops and trainers respectively . We forded the river using our walking poles for balance and once across we he d on some boulders to dry our feet . It was a lovely spot , but we had another big day 's walk , so we could n't afford to hang around . Once re - booted , we followed the path as it bent away from the river and began a steep zigzagging descent through woods . After losing a couple of hundred metres altitude in this fashion , the path delivered us to the Pla de Boavi - a large flat area with immense pine trees dotted around its perimeter . There were a few people wandering about who had presumably taken the road up to the plateau 's western end . I was a little ahead of Ian and John , so I sat on a rock in the shade of a pine tree and had a snack . My companions soon joined me and I shared some food with John , though Ian was abstemious as usual . We were soon shouldering our packs again and we made for the footbridge over the nearby river . Mr Joosten counsels that care is needed when crossing the bridge ; however , in the three years since he 'd written his account all but its supporting piers had disappeared , perhaps he d away when the river was in spate . So , off came the boots again . Fording the river Having crossed the river , the path began to climb in deep zigzags - we had 1,000 metres of ascending between us and the Coll de Sellente . After a while , I left Ian and John behind and continued to dig in to the climb at my own pace . Soon the path he d the Riu de Sellente , which it crosses then bends away from before swinging back again . From here , the path climbs alongside the river until it crosses a large plateau in the upper section of the valley . It was very hot and I was sweating freely as I pulled myself and my bloody rucksack up the path . Eventually the path climbed away from the river in large zigzags and as I looked up , trying to trace the course of the path from below , I saw a lone walker ahead of me ; I was fairly sure it was Juan . Spotting I m put renewed purpose in my stride , I upped my pace and made my way up the zigzagging path . Juan soon disappeared from view at the point where the path led on to a small flat area ; by the time I arrived at this plateau he was already out of sight further up the path ahead . Mouldering on the small plateau were the crumbling remnants of what , some years before , had been the Refugi de Sellente ; its broken piles of stone and timber giving the appearance of devastation wrought by a mighty storm . I continued the climb up beyond the old refuge and , at length , the col came into view with Juan silhouetted against the skyline . When I he d the Coll de Sellente ( 2,485m ) , Juan was long gone ; looking east into the amphitheatre enclosed on three sides by the Circ de Baborte , I could see I m working his way down towards the Baborte lakes . he d above the lakes on a bluff is the unmanned Refugi de Cinquantenari ( also known as Refugi de Baborte ) . The refuge is almost identical to the Refugi Enric Pujol - except that it has been painted lifeboat - orange . I made my way down the rocky slope and across the floor of the amphitheatre , crossing a couple of streams , before climbing the bluff and arriving at the rear of the refuge . I was hot , he d in sweat and bone - tired ; I would quite happily have called it a day at this point , but I thought I 'd wait and see what Ian and John wanted to do as I was enjoying the camaraderie of their company . However , I was fairly sure that they too would have had enough for one day by the time they arrived here . I opened the airlock - like door to the refuge and was dismayed to see that there was a large sack full of rubbish in the vestibule that some selfish tossers had felt above taking down the mountain with them . Apart from this minor monument to small - mindedness , the interior of the refuge was in reasonable order and somewhat cooler than outside . I dug the trangia out of my pack and got a brew on . Looking down on the Baborte lakes from the Coll de Sellente Back outside , I draped my sweat - soaked t - shirt over a rock , took my boots off and took up position - sat with my back against the refuge , cup of tea in hand - watching the Coll de Sellente for signs of the indomitable duo . Sure enough , within ten minutes two figures appeared on the col , dithered for a minute and then struck off on an idiosyncratic course towards the refuge . I had some tea ready when Ian and John arrived , fully expecting that they would I m their relief at reaching journey 's end for the day . However , I was soon disabused of this notion . Though happy to pause in the shade of the refuge for a few minutes with a cup of tea - or an ascetic mug of hot water in John 's case - the boys had evidently decided that they would continue on to the Refugi de Vall Ferrera , two or so hours ' walk on from the Cinquantenari . I was knackered and ready for a good rest , but I decided to keep Ian and John 's company and , furthermore , it would be another two hours ' walk nearer to Banyuls . The boys set off while I was packing up and I followed them around the eastern shore of the largest Baborte lake to its outflow where the path dropped precipitously , slaloming a course through scree and scrub . Where the path briefly levelled out on a small plateau , we encountered two young men in scouting apparel hefting large cooking pots and wearing concerned expressions . It transpired that they were looking for a stray group of thirty children whose dinner they were lugging up the mountainside . We promised vigilance and continued on our path . Happily , a few minutes later , we caught sight of the stray waifs and sent them off in the direction of their ambulant dinner . Our path tumbled down through woodland and eventually carried us along the north bank of the Noguera de Vall Ferrera . We crossed the river by means of an ancient - looking stone bridge and climbed a little to a dirt road , along which we encountered our first motor vehicles for a few days . After ten minutes pounding up the road I parted ways with Ian and John for the night as they headed for the refuge and I carried on a short way to the Pla de Boet , a very pretty flat - bottomed valley traversed by a meandering stream and framed to the north , east and south by a horseshoe of mountain ridges . Fairly exhausted , I found a pleasing spot , he d the tent , washed , cooked , ate and turned in for the night . I managed an excellent night 's sleep and woke to the first serious rain I 'd encountered since the Pays Basque - certainly the first to provoke spontaneous donning of waterproof trousers . While striking camp , first Juan and then Ian and John came past heading for the 600 metre climb to the Port de Boet ( 2,509m ) . Loading up with my still - too - heavy pack , I picked up the path and began the climb . The rain had a certain novelty value and the resultant coolness was very welcome after the punishing heat of recent days . I caught up with the rain - caped figures of Ian and John a little before the saddle and we swapped notes on our previous evening 's experience . There had been no beds left at the refuge and they had had to play the part of weary old men struggling along the Hrp in order to secure accommodation for the night in the form of mattresses on the dining room floor . Dinner had apparently been served very late , almost provoking a randonneurs ' revolt . Bivouac on the Pla de Boet Crossing the saddle , we passed into France for a brief visit and descended past the tang de la Soucarrane , attempting to hold a course by decoding a variety of often - unrelated way markers . I arrived at the floor of the Vall e de Soulcem somewhat in advance of Ian and John and as the wind and rain had become heavier I made for the shelter of a hut a few hundred yards away across the Ruisseau de Soulcem on the eastern side of the valley floor . The hut was locked , but there was some protection from the elements to be had by standing in its lee . I waited for about twenty minutes without Ian and John appearing ; I was getting cold and wondered whether they 'd stopped further back so I decided to carry on , sure that they 'd catch me up when I stopped for some food . I began the climb to the charmingly named Port de Rat and the Franco - andorran border ( 2,540m ) . I 'd already gained a hundred metres or so before I spotted Ian and John heading up the road from lower down the valley , which suggested that they 'd headed further down - valley before crossing the stream . They 'd also spotted me and I waved to let them know that I 'd see them up ahead . In fact I 've not seen either of them since . I continued on up through the rain ; the shoulder straps of my rucksack had been biting into my shoulders since myself and Paul had departed Salardu laden with supplies , but today the discomfort seemed worse . The effort required to pull myself the few hundred metres up to the Port de Rat seemed disproportionate and once I 'd crossed the col I climbed down a few metres to get some shelter and eat something . My first view of Andorra was of a rather uninspiring out of season ski resort . While I remained in this bloated little principality , I would encounter little to improve on this impression . John and Ian find Andorra amusing The rain eased off as I began my descent - both real and metaphorical - into Andorra . The sun emerged and the heat rose . I arrived at the road which climbed in deep curves up to the ski resort that I 'd looked down on from the Port de Rat . Rather than walking along the tarmac , I hacked across country until I arrived at a large , ugly , restaurant and car park area . I plonked myself down at an outside table and removed various layers , conscious of the curious looks of people sat in the restaurant or milling around the car park area . I was feeling a little misanthropic and decided to get on my way as soon as possible . I followed the path to the rear of the complex and climbed to the popular Tristaina lakes , continuing on my way without lingering to enjoy their evident natural beauty . At the eastern end of the largest lake - estany Primer - the path descended steeply , following the course of the Riu de Tristaina then crossing a new dam before descending once more on a large ski piste . After about 300 metres of descending , the path arrived at an old track road which made for easy going . Unfortunately this only lasted for a few hundred metres before the Hrp chose to deposit me on the main mountain road . It was n't busy , but I still felt less than happy trudging down the winding road in the heat . I was feeling quite weary - probably the I ve effect of the last few days - and this was also influencing my mood . I plodded down the tarmac and eventually came to a junction where the Hrp left the main road and gradually climbed for a couple of kilometres to a small car park and visitor centre at the road 's end . From here I followed a dirt track towards the Refuge de Sorteny and on Mr Joosten 's advice I took a ' short-cut ', which ended up being a scramble through tangled undergrowth - not what I needed at this juncture . Extricating myself from the malign foliage , I arrived at the dirt track once more and climbed gently for a couple of hundred metres to the refuge . The Refuge de Sorteny is one of a number of municipal refuges in Andorra , which are functional - all iron bunk - bed frames and concrete floors - and rather soulless , but a welcome provision for the weary randonneur . They 're also free , so not to be sniffed - at . There were a few folk around when I arrived ; some obvious day - trippers and others who 'd come up to stay at the refuge from the car park below as well as a couple of other Hrp pilgrims . The latter were easy to spot on account of their lack of any spare flesh whatsoever in the slightest . Among these was a chap I 'd seen at the camping ground on the Col de Lizuniaga that very first evening in the Pays Basque . I introduced myself to Patrick and he said that he 'd also recognised me : ' you were there that first evening , camping on the col with your father , no ? ' I 've not yet told Matthew about this exchange ; given that he is in fact only six years older than me , it might ruffle his feathers a little . Myself and Patrick spent a while swapping metaphorical notes on the Hrp experience and a little later he pointed out two other obvious Hrpers to me . Thomas and Am lie , who 'd walked the route together , proved to be a pair of very agreeable young people . Am lie had had the idea to walk the Hrp and Thomas had responded to her advertisement for a walking partner . They were both very enthusiastic about their Hrp experience and Am lie declared that it was great being only eight days or so from Banyuls because you just could n't I ve up at this point , could you ? We all concurred . A little later , another Frenchman named Jacques joined the clique ; it seemed that there would be quite a party of us continuing on the path tomorrow . In the meantime , I 'd been periodically casting anxious glances down the path , hoping that the indomitable duo would stride into view , but it was n't to be - i would n't see them again . 6 The morning promised rain and my first concern was to head back down the path to try and find my map and mapcase , which I 'd evidently lost while rootling around in the undergrowth the previous afternoon . There was no sign of these items , so I headed back to the refuge to pick up my still - too - heavy back pack . The rest of the Hrp posse had already left and I set off at a determined pace , intending to reel them in . First up was a 750 metre climb up to the Collada dels Meners ( 2,713m ) as the cloud descended . I passed a foursome of young French walkers who were enjoying a few days ' walk in the region , but there was no sign of my fellow Grand Randonnistes . The weather descended as I ascended , battering my way uphill against the gathering wind and rain . I felt an urgency to find the others because I was a bit chary of being caught on my own in bad weather , at altitude and with potential navigational difficulties . By the time I he d the col I was virtually running , despite the incline and the weight of my pack . I erupted over the pass into the midst of Thomas , Am lie , Patrick and Jacques , who were all mightily surprised by the steaming vision , clad only in shorts and t - shirt , that was suddenly manifest before them . The weather had become quite foul and there was a hectic donning of waterproofs before we lunged off the pass in a surge of common purpose . A sociable morning 's walk followed and the weather improved along with my mood . After a brief stop at a cabana to brew some coffee and share a few of our meagre supplies , we climbed steeply over a ridge and looked down on the Val d 'incles and the small town of Soldeu to the south - east . I left the others to a picnic lunch and carried on down to the valley ; first descending north to the large Estany de Cabana Sorda and its eponymous refuge , before swinging east then south to the valley floor . Past the lake , the path was very well trodden and there were numerous people walking up from the valley below , all wearing the aura of slightly too much civilisation . I hit the road and headed north for a kilometre to Camping d 'incles where I intended to pitch my tent , have a celebratory beer and a shower before hitching the few kilometres back down the road to Soldeu to replenish my supplies . However , on arrival the Auberge d 'incles looked forlorn and long - closed . The camping ground was fenced off . Bugger , I thought . I briefly pondered my options before dumping my pack and heading back down the road to Soldeu . I stuck my thumb out as I walked , but no - one stopped to pick me up though several motorists nearly ran me down . By the time I had walked to the bleak agglomeration of hotels , roads and garages that was Soldeu , my good mood had evaporated . There was no sign of any shops ; I asked at a garage and was told that there was one a further two kilometres down the road : that would make a round trip of 10 kilometres . I could n't face it ; instead I stomped irritably back up the road to Camping d 'incles. A few hundred yards from the defunct campsite I espied my fellow walkers lounging by the roadside . Am lie was harvesting several large he s for their crop of wild raspberries . I joined her , enjoying the sharp - sweet explosions of flavour as I popped the tiny fruits into my mouth . Thomas , Am lie and Jacques planned to follow the V ron route from here to the Andorran retail - hellhole of El Pas de la Casa via the Refuge de Siscaro , where they would spend the night . Patrick had opted to take the same route as me : to l 'hospitalet-pr s-l 'andorre via the Refuge de Juclar . Thomas volunteered to buy me a canister of gas in El Pas - it was very unlikely that I 'd find any of this precious commodity in l 'hospitalet - and we arranged to meet at the Refuge des Bouillouses , to the east of Pic Carlit , in two days ' time . We set off together in high spirits under the afternoon sun and after about twenty minutes we he d the junction where our paths diverged . It quickly became evident that Patrick had decided to continue with his compatriots rather than keep the company of an hysterical Englishman . I was n't unreservedly keen on I m either , but it felt a bit like a rebuff , so as I went my solitary way I felt a certain heaviness in my heart . The walk up to the Refuge de Juclar was a pleasant 400 metre climb beside a lively stream and I passed a small group with fishing rods and a pair of spaniels , who were obviously intent on fishing in the Estany de Juclar . After an hour or so I he d the lake and soon found the refuge - another of the unstaffed municipal variety - and gratefully unburdened myself of my rucksack . There were a few people around so I thought I 'd bag myself a bed for the night . I opened the refuge door and stepped inside ; there was a small fire going in the hearth and around a dozen adults and children were spread around the two tables occupying the main area between the rows of bunk beds . I said hello , but did n't really elicit a response other than a few suspicious glances . I felt unwelcome . These people had most likely walked up from the car park by the defunct Auberge d 'incles with their groceries and I 'd walked from Hendaye with my home on my back and they did n't want me there . I turned around and left . One 's mood can significantly colour one 's response to and interpretation of situations and exchanges and I would acknowledge that since crossing the Port de Rat the previous day , my generally cheery disposition had been somewhat compromised . Once outside , I noticed a metal door on a side addition to the main body of the refuge . It was open and turned out to be a little winter room with two bunk bed frames and a table . I installed myself forthwith . A little later , as I sat outside enjoying the early evening sun I was he d by a middle - aged French couple . They were very friendly and we chatted a while about our I ve walking pursuits - they were in the middle of a week 's holiday in the region - and when I mentioned that I was low on gas , a canister was he d from their packs and they insisted that I take it . This cheered me up considerably - their generosity more than literally having enough gas to burn . My supplies were absolutely minimal since I 'd failed to restock in Soldeu , so that evening my dinner comprised porridge with a few raisins and a cup of tea . I turned in early and listened to the hubbub from the main part of the refuge percolating through to my austere little cell . I woke before dawn the next morning , ate the last of my porridge and left before anyone else was up . The path followed the southern shore of the larger of the two Juclar lakes and then crossed the narrow isthmus between them . There were a couple of tents he d by the western shore of the smaller lake and as I approached , the spaniels I 'd seen the day before started up a barking barrage and flew from the tents in pursuit of potential assailants . I impolitely suggested that they desist , but they continued - evidently not familiar with the lexicon of English expletives . The climb of several hundred metres to the Port de l 'albe was agreeable in the cool morning air . I sat a short while on the pass looking down into France and unpicking my route from the terrain below as the sun rose from behind the Carlit massif to the east . I then exited Andorra , entirely devoid of fond feelings of regret ; the immediate descent from the pass was a steep scree slope and I skittered my way down , happy to be putting distance between myself and the principality . After losing a couple of hundred metres , I arrived at the tang de l 'albe and steered a course around the western shore of the lake . The route was marked with red and white paint he s and led me through a field of large boulders which made for hard going in some places ; of all the terrain I encountered in the Pyrenees , I liked fields of large boulders the least : I find stepping or hopping from rock to rock with a large pack very tiring for some reason - perhaps it 's the combination of physical effort combined with the need for close concentration . The path then descended past a couple of smaller tarns to the tang de Couart where the boulder - hopping scenario became significantly worse . At one point I nearly lost my balance , spinning 360 as I landed on a rock . If I 'd fallen I would n't have been walking anywhere for a while . I continued , feeling more and more drained , descending next to the outflow at the lake 's eastern end . It was here that I went wrong : consulting map and guide book , but not compass , I started descending the wrong valley . I was a little unsure from the outset , but I was concentrating on keeping on my feet in the interminably rocky landscape . I 'd been off - course for about 15 minutes and lost 300 metres altitude when I realised what I 'd done . At the same time , I encountered a man walking up from the valley below and he confirmed my suspicion . He asked where I 'd come from , ' hendaye ' I replied , ' well you only have three hundred metres to climb to regain your path ', he suggested encouragingly , but I realised I could n't face the climb back up through boulder world ; so I thanked the man and carried on down the valley . That 's it . I 'd given up . I was no longer enjoying myself : I was fed up with rocks , porridge , Andorrans and walking on my own . After 45 minutes my path joined the Gr10 and after another hour and a half I was in the village of M rens - les - vals eating large pains - aux - raisins and sipping excellent coffee . I phoned Fiona and she booked me a flight home for the wee hours of the following morning . Just like that , I gave up and went home . I 've not regretted doing so since , but it 's just that I 'm going to have to do the whole bloody walk again at some point . Are n't I ? 2 Gr=grande Randonn e . The Gr10 and Gr11 are the two other long distance paths that traverse the Pyrenees , the former on the French side , the latter on the Spanish side . 3 The various ' hospitals ' encountered when walking in the Pyrenees - vielha , Benasque etc . - refer to the ' hospices ' or staging posts for travellers and pilgrims - including those journeying to the holy lands - that were often he d and maintained during the Middle Ages by charitable foundations such as the Knights Templar , the Knights of St John of Jerusalem and the Knights Hospitaller . 4 Richard did in fact catch up with Ian and John a week later and walked with them for a few days before he had to I ve up through feeling unwell again . His ' cold ' it transpired was a serious liver infection that subsequently hospitallised I m for some time . 6 We have , however , exchanged a number of emails . It transpires that Ian and John repaired to a hotel in nearby El Serrat that evening as John was feeling unwell . They rested up there for a further day before continuing on their way and arriving in Banyuls - sur - mer on August 16 th . Like this : 13 Responses Hi - enjoyed your account of the traverse which I am planning to amble along this coming summer , though with a considerably lighter pack I suspect . I expect to ' err ' on the Spanish side of the Hrp . I have been walking most years in Pyrenees , and recently have started from Andorra ( as it is an easy bus ride from Barcelona ) : my experience there has been very different from yours , as I like the scores of unstaffed huts , the friendly ' natives ' and the superb walking both in Andorra , and in Spain around the Val Ferrera to the West and Puig Mal to the East . Best he s for future trips . Rob I 've just discovered this . Very similar to the route I took in 2004 with my wife . We grew to love Veron , but not Joosten . It 's a shame you did n't finish - why not go back and try an I ve route . We met very few other Hrpers , but we did keep bumping into a Frenchman in a campervan who had done the Hrp and wanted to do it again . His name was Didier . Some details of our trip are here : http : but reading your essay does inspire me to complete our detailed report ! Hello Martin . Yes , I 'll do the whole thing one day ; got a few years left in the legs yet . No regrets about not finishing the route in 2006 , sometimes it 's good to know when to make a tactical withdrawal . Ahem . I doubt your Didier was the same man we encountered ; ' our ' Didier was very small and had walked the entire Hrp three times by 2006 , he 's probably done it a few more times by now . I see from your site that you did your walk in August 2004 , so we may have crossed paths then . Good luck with your write up , I 'll look forward to reading it Can n't really believe i did nt see this b4 i went out , wouldve been great to read....tho now of course it has all the more resonance because i know exactly where u are . Seems you and I did the same thing , lots of folk coming in and out on different stages . Someone I met and walked with out there , Andy Reynolds , is a fan of your blog also , and said you 'd stopped just short of hospitalet pres andorre....you did nt miss much there , its a depressing resupply , and the campsite is in the S bend of the road . We I d go the distance , and the last stage is worth it until Canigou certainly , after that its pyschologically tougher because it gets hotter and all the high stuff is behind you - i found seeing the end on top of canigou really pretty overwhelming , and the last 3 days really just doing it to get it done . My Gf and I did the 3 hard ' e ' days on stage 3 - i 'd say they were worth it , the most beautiful and the toughest walking I 've ever done . For my other half , the jury is still out - she found it physically a bit gruelling I think . Aneto kicked our butts as well , bad weather . Its an amazing walk . Thanks for your words of encouragement before and during . Aaaggghhh ! David , I thought you were still on the path ! last couple of days i 've been thinking ' must check selfpowered , David must be somewhere near Canigou by now.. . ' Time flys . Well done , it 's a real achievement that 'll stick to you for keeps . Not easy though , eh ? Particularly route finding and keeping your focus . It is , as you say , an amazing walk and I 'll be back to do it again at some point , though I 've never regretted not finishing last time . Challenging yourself is a good thing , but frankly circumstances had transformed the experience into a bit of an ordeal , which was n't what I was there for . I gather you had a few ' moments ' too , all par for the course - you digested them , moved on and continued on your way . I 'm very much looking forward to your account . I 'll raise a glass of Hungarian Gewurtstraminer ( that 's what 's in the fridge ! ) in your honour this evening . All the best Salut Pete ! Here 's to the all day boulder fields , murky basque water troughs , every season of weather in one day and some of the most beautiful and challenging countryside I 've ever been in . Definitely a few moments had , to be sure , both bad and good , but mostly wonderful . My legs , however , are aching like billio right now . Goodness me , Pete what a small world it is ! There I was searching for photos of a ( french ) Pyrenean refuge , while transcribing a journal of 1986 , when I spotted a photo of Refuge d 'arremoulit ( showing the very spot , under the window , where I he d Chris in 1987 ) on your website . I hope all is well with you . I will send you a link for my new website , currently under construction , when it is ready . Do I ve my regards to Matthew , if you are in touch . Come round for a cup of tea or something stronger next time you are in Brighton . All the best , Robin . Hey Robin , excellent to hear from you . The world is , as you say , a small place . You 've been in my thoughts now and again recently . It would be good to visit for a cup of tea or something stronger next time I 'm down . I 've some work coming up in Brighty - awaiting dates - so I 'll be in touch and will darken your doorstep then if you 're around . Looking forward to perusing your website . Greetings , Pete , and I still await your visit ! In the meantime I 'm wondering if you can help me . I 'm writing a piece about my visit to Jura in 1969 and it is opening out in a number of interesting directions : relevant digressions , I would call them . I have mentioned my encounter with John Mercer , his diverse work , and his illness ( asthma ) . I wonder if you might know his cause of death , in 1982 ( i have he d in vain , in all the obvious places on the internet ) . Secondly I would like to make contact with Heather Mollison ( who lived at Lagg ) . I stayed with her and her brother Johnny for a few days back in ' 69 . She was , I think , fifteen or sixteen at the time . Again I have he d rather thoroughly , without success . I wonder if you might have a personal contact on Jura who would know her whereabouts . I hope all is going well with you and Fiona . Robin . Ps do get in touch if you need a workmate. . . I 'm in touch with the chap who now lives at Lealt - in the house formerly owned by John Mercer . I 'll drop I m an email and see if he knows anything . I have a vague notion that he died of asthma or respiratory related illness . I remember you telling me about the lassie at Lagg ; I could ask my principal informer to put out some feelers. . . Do n't hold your breath though . Funnily enough , myself and the lovely Fiona looked at a house at Lagg - dunchroaban - several times before deciding it was too compromised by damp etc . The house at Durisdeer is beginnig to look unlikely . The search continues. . . Should be down in Brighty in the near future and of course will let you know if I need a workmate . All the best . Ps Pete : Thornhill is a charming village , as you may by now have discovered ( though it is at its best in summer ) . Many years ago I stayed with friends in a tiny cottage in the grounds of a small castle near Thornhill , and later found myself standing outside a much larger castle , Drumlanrig , waiting for the Duke of Buccleuch to come out and fire his shotgun....into the air , that is , to start the ( now defunct ) Buccleuch Chase , a tough but spectacular 11 mile run down the glen . Do let me know if you move there . Robin . Thanks , dear Pete , you are a fine fellow . It 's just a small detail I am after but I would like to get it right . The thing is , I have noted that two writers chose to I ve in Jura 's most remote , northernmost houses , rather bleak and windswept locations , both suffered from respiratory diseases and died in their 40s . Heather does show up in a photo on the ' paddy boyle jura ' site ( http : ) but that is as far as it goes . Stay in touch , maybe see you soon . Rob . Walking on Rum and the Small Isles Pete 's forthcoming guide to walking on the Small Isles : Rum , Eigg , Muck and Canna , as well as the Hebridean Twins Coll and Tiree will be he d by Cicerone Press in the spring and is available for pre - order . Click here to order a copy from the Amazon web site Jura Guide Click here to order a copy from the Amazon web site or visit the Cicerone web site . Mountain Biking on the South Downs Pete 's I ve new guide to mountain biking on the South Downs . Twenty - six great routes including a three - day traverse of the South Downs Way . Click here to order a copy . Scotland Outdoors Magazine Click here to read Pete 's article on walking the west coast of Jura in the Winter Issue of Scotland Outdoors magazine . Winners of the Ppa Scotland Best Small Publishing Company Magazine Award 2009 and 2010 . Links About Peter Edwards grew up in Sussex and nurtured a love of walking amid the ' blunt , bow - headed , whale - backed ' hills of the South Downs . He has undertaken numerous walking and cycling expeditions in Europe and beyond and is particularly drawn to wild and remote landscapes . peter moved to scotland in 2006 .
3  October 29 , 2012 The Narrow Streets Widen. . . We are winding our way through narrow streets in Melaka in Malaysia , some of the streets are so narrow we are in danger of collecting street decorations , laundry and any other item pointing streetwards on the wing mirrors of the coach , but our driver shows his skill and we manage to negotiate the way without collecting any additional ornamentation . After brushing past a few longer stemmed plants we suddenly find ourselves in wider streets and can see more than just building material flashing past our windows . Our guide gives us some history about Melaka ( a.k.a . Malacca ) such as the fact that the city centre has been listed as a World Heritage Site since 2008 and that the area has had it 's fair share of invaders , colonisers and rulers who included over the centuries the Thai,vietnamese , Portuguese , Dutch , British as well as other influences for shorter periods of time in between . This was mostly because Melaka was an excellent all weather port in a very strategic position at the narrowest point of the Malacca Straights . We also learn that the head of state in Melaka is a Governor rather than a Sultan ( as in other areas of Malaysia ) Let us take a look. . . Share this : Like this : Those rattan balls bring back memories of school days - they are sepak takraw balls , and you had to score points with them by shooting them through a basketball - height hoop.. . . but no hands were allowed . Only your feet and head ! Peggy Tee , Thank You for an explanation of what these ball are for , I think they are Beautiful little works of art , it 's like an Asian version of a celtic knot , you are enticed to want to trace the pattern around and around the ball . I think these are brilliantly made and I rued the fact that we had no space in our luggage for one to take home . That you could play a game with it too would just be a complete bonus. . . these are so much fun! ! !
3  It does n't happen very often in southern Spain , but what can do you do to pass the day when the heavens open and the rain falls on Spain ? After many months of dry weather you often get two or three days of heavy rain . So your holiday visit to the beach is off . What then ? Well there is plenty to do in Spain , whatever the weather . Do n't let a drop of rain prevent you from seeing more of what is on offer in the country . Going to museums in Spain is exciting , not boring . There are so many of them around and so many of them lend themselves to be of genuine interest to all ages . The children of Spain enjoy going to museums . They know that lots of them are I ve and are sure to entertain them . Taking shelter in Arcos de la Frontera If you find yourself in or near the city of Granada , take yourselves and your children to the Science Park on the outskirts of the city . I had my doubts when first visiting this place a few years ago but it has exceeded my expectations . Indeed I have yet to come across anyone , young or old , who is anything other than impressed with this clever museum . Something for all ages and a high degree of interaction . Granada Science Park There are permanent exhibitions that entice visitors back time and time again . And there are temporary exhibits on show for weeks or months on end . If you or your children are into mathematics there is , until the end of 2012 , an exhibition celebrating the centenary of the Royal Spanish Mathematics Society . Personally I would rather spend time with the Raptors or in the planetarium . And , of course , you should climb the observation tower that offers you great views of Granada and the Sierra Nevada mountains . Pampaneira in the sun There are even things to do when it rains in the mountain villages of La Alpujarra . Go into one of the warming bodegas in the town of Pampaneira and take your time tasting locally produced ham , chorizo , wine and pacharan . The last named is a favourite drink of mine made with sloe berries . These welcoming shops have bars within them and allow you to stay as long as you wish . Perhaps you would like to buy some cow bells why you are there . Also in Pampaneira there is a chocolate shop like no other I have experienced . I have he d this business take off . They make a wide variety of chocolate on the premises and you can watch the employees at work while tasting samples of their work . On a day when an umbrella is required outside , I can n't think of a better place to take cover than in an underground chocolate shop . Pampaneira in the rain Depending on where you are holidaying in Spain , you could go to the cinema and see a film in the English language . While that is only possible once a week in inland cities such as Granada , only 90 minutes away in Malaga you can see English language films more often . There are several cinema complexes along the ever popular Costa del Sol and you can find information on what films are showing in local newspapers and free English language magazines . Going to the cinema in Spain is something most holidaymakers will not do . Be different . When the heavens open go to the pictures . Or take cover under the roof of one of the many superb indoor markets , such as the one in the third biggest city in Spain , Valencia . Marvel at the sheer array of fruit and vegetables on sale . Take in the colour and vibrancy of a busy Spanish food market . A great way to stay dry . And while you are in Valencia , be sure to visit its own vast City of Arts and Sciences - an attraction so vast you could spend an entire day there . Valencia central market Art exhibitions tend to attract the more adult holidaymaker . I am always amazed how , no matter where you find yourself in Spain , there will be an art exhibition not far from where you are staying . Of course some museums and art galleries are more famous than others . In Malaga the Picasso museum attracts thousands of visitors every year . But it is not so busy that you cannot stand back and take in the work of Malaga 's most famous son . 2013 will be the tenth anniversary of the opening of this museum by King Juan Carlos and Queen Sofia of Spain . Special events are planned to mark one decade of displaying the works of Picasso - a man whose art divides opinion but never fails to impress . Salvador Dali Museum , Figueres If you are in the north of Spain then you can visit the crazy museum created by the man who is buried underneath it . Salvador Dali was instrumental in planning the layout and content of the very I ve museum , named after him , that cannot be missed in the city of Figueres on the Costa Brava . The building is unmistakeable from the outside and suitably flamboyant inside . The master of surrealism is buried underneath the entrance . As you queue for your entrance tickets , he is under your feet . Bizarre ! Or should I say surreal ? Understandably this is a very popular museum . There is so much to see and take in that you should allow plenty of time for your visit . You will still be left scratching your head at some of Dali 's work but it does set you thinking . As Hercule Poirot would have said : It engages your little grey cells . The young love this museum and school parties visit in big numbers . You will enjoy your visit to this museum more if you are able to avoid the busiest times . This part of the Costa Brava is also famous for being home to some huge wine warehouses . Come out of the rain and take time to study the booze on offer and do n't leave without buying some local wines . Inside Dali 's world People do n't go on holiday intending to play indoor sport . But , when the rain pours , why not ? Esepcially if you are a keen player of squash or tennis . Many very modern sports centres in Spain will allow visitors entry on a temporary pass and the courts and other sports facilities are superb . Perhaps your children would like to play an indoor game of football with Spanish youngsters of a similar age . Do n't be afraid to ask to do so . Spanish children will be sporting the shirts of football teams from all over Europe and are always keen to meet fans of football from England , Scotland , Ireland , Germany or Holland . Wine shopping on the Costa Brava A game all the family can play on a rainy day is ten pin bowling . These facilities are often located in the same shopping complexes as the local cinema . You have restaurants and cafes on offer and you have some wide bowling lanes to enjoy . Some hours spent bowling are a great way to stay dry and have lots of I ve fun . Sure , you came to holiday in Spain for the blue skies and sunshine . You may not have anticipated a rainy day . You probably thought you would be on the beach every day . But it is wise to be prepared . It does rain in Spain from time to time and you want to have a plan ' b ' up your sleeve . Rain in Spain does n't have to stop play . Posted by vernon Vernon is a London born , former Fleet Street journalist and , for 25 years , a television producer for Itv , Bbc , Sky & C4 . In 2002 he began travelling the length and breadth of Spain . In 2005 he settled south of Granada , and is co - author of a guidebook to the 100 best tapas bars in the city and province of granada .
3  Firenze , Italia ( the First Time in 2006 ) Some go to Italy to find themselves . Not me . I went and discovered how much of myself I had truly lost . My landmark ' first ever ' trip to Florence , Italy was precipitated by my husband 's desire to take a university studies abroad course . My husband ( whom I will name Brett ) was studying to acquire a Bachelor of Arts degree . And I was a satisfied stay at home mom with two almost grown kids who were ready to launch out on their own . Our son was graduating from high school that year and our daughter was going on to post secondary education . Ours was a very traditional home with very traditional gender roles . So while I yearned to get an education , it was understood that it was more I ve for the breadwinner in the home to advance his career . Brett was presented with the opportunity of taking a Liberal Studies course ( art and Architecture in the Italian Rennaissance ) in Florence , Italy . The idea was appealing in more ways than one . He would be able to squeeze nine university credits into the six week course . What 's more , it was a uniquely cheaper way to travel and experience the country and culture . Who would n't want to study Art and Architecture in the Italian Renaissance in Florence ? ? I came along with I m as a companion and held out hopes that perhaps there be more companions of students there as well . There were two other such companions , both of whom were men . We arrived in Florence at the tailend of April while the city was bustling with students but still free of the masses of tourists that flood the city when the weather warms . Our little apartment was just across the Ponte Vecchio and together we shared it with another couple who were the same age as ourselves . That was about the only thing we had in common...apart from a he d ability to hunt down the cheapest bottle of red wine . About Annie Pool Find out about my exciting journey as a Soulful Tripper on an Internship abroad in Tourism and Travel that led to the story and inspiration behind the S.tripper 's Travel Club , the club for women who like to " travel with art and soul . "
3  Jumping cat spotting in Myanmar Allan Soutaris can n't find any jumping cats at Myanmar 's infamous Jumping Cats Monastery , but luckily the tranquil sunsets and delicious beer make it all Ok . Stepping my way past smiling custom officials I was somewhat I ve as what to expect from Myanmar . I had n't read much about Myanmar , but from what I 'd seen posted on the internet over the past few years I was , well , a little timid . Yet , as the airport doors slid open , I was welcomed by a familiar face - lionel Messi . Brightly illuminated , the giant billboard was one of many surprising western influences welcoming me to Myanmar . Driving to our hotel I was surprised at the complete saturation of western advertising and the adherence to traffic laws . Having lived in Cambodia for the past two years , the Yangon evening air seemed fresh . As I commented on this and lowered my window ever so slightly , a travelling companion direct from Australia recoiled at the pollutants in the air . As morning broke , we clambered downstairs from our windowless hotel room , spilling onto uneven footpaths stained with betel nut . Following a Lonely Planet walking tour we fought blistering heat through markets , tea houses , China & India quarters , pagodas and faces decorated with Thanakha . The lack of motos and English architecture did its best to fool me into thinking I had indeed left Asia . With the sun descending , the appeal of a far less taxing method of transport led us on a three hour train journey around the outskirts of Yangon . Quickly hurried towards the last train of the day , we were ushered into a mobile oven with fifteen smiling locals . With a sudden jolt the industrial beast sprang to life , nudging forward into the surrounds beyond . The driver , delirious with heat , sought not to stop at each station , merely slowing enough for locals to leap on and off with their wares , children , or I ve stock . It was all very orderly and polite . We rose for the elderly , they rose for mothers with children , who in turn rose for us . The next day our prop plane he d and spluttered as it he d us northwards to Inle Lakon , a short journey over a lush green landscape before landing safely in driving rain amongst mountainous scenery . Arriving at our guesthouse the owner excitedly explained we had arrived during the Phaung Daw Oo Pagoda Festival , declaring it the best time to see the lake 's decorated royal barges . Tearing a map from the wall he described several other locations on the lake we 'd stop at during the day when I could n't help but interrupt I m at the phrase " jumping Cat Monastery " " jumping Cats ? " I repeated . " yes sir , jumping cats , " he replied , pointing to a faded photograph on the wall of a cat leaping through a plastic ring held several feet from the ground by a jolly looking monk . At 5.30am the next morning , silhouettes of fishermen dotted the lake as our boat putted towards the procession of Inle leg rowers . The rowers ceremoniously tugged four holy Buddha images clockwise around the lake in full pageantry , stopping at each village allowing people to pay homage . Young men danced and sang atop the barges as rows of stringy , weathered looking men impressively manoeuvred the lengthy vessels with their oars and legs . After stopping at several bustling markets , sleepy stalls and pagodas we finally arrived at the Jumping Cat Monastery . Purring with excitement , I leapt from the boat towards the monastery doors . To my utter disappointment there were no jumping cats . While we were certainly not lied to about the amount of cats , we were horrifically deceived as to the lack of their activity . Everywhere I turned there were cats sprawled in the sun performing nothing particularly gravity defying . Frantically searching for a monk I asked if the cats were indeed jumping . " no , no cats not jump today . " Fortunately , once on dry land , I was able to drown my sorrows in street stall chapattis filled with lentil dahl coupled with Myanmar beers . Sometime during the next morning ( or afternoon ) feeling slightly ( incredibly ) hung over , we I d goodbye to our gracious guest house owner and headed towards the airport to board another prop plane as a magnificent thunderstorm hung in the cool mountain air . Cycling through Bagan reminded me very much of a bad relationship speckled with great sex . The bikes were n't quite built for westerners and the temperature did n't exactly lend itself to physical activity but the incredible peacefulness and beauty of the ride made the unpleasantness worthwhile . The vastness of the temple complex is n't easy to come to grips with until you work your way atop one the 4000 - plus temples . The beautiful Ayeyarwady River bounds the northern and western border , while the plain itself is littered with pagoda stupas , temples , ordination halls and monasteries . While on the bicycles I instantly fell into holiday mode , enjoying the spectacular scenery at a snail 's pace . And just when I thought I could n't feel any more at peace , we were treated to the most amazing sunset atop the Shwesandaw Paya . Although one of the most famous pagodas to watch the sunset , it was not overrun with camera touting tourists . In fact , after some initial snaps , many tourists were drawn to sit and watch the sun set over the infinite plain . A light haze hung in the air , flocks of birds swarmed over the horizon as the pagodas slowly changed colour in the setting sun . About this blog Pack your suitcases for Crikey 's blog on all things travel , brought together by tour leader Amber Jamieson . Click here to learn more about our glorious writers . Do you want to write for Back in a bit ? check out these guidelines . . .
3  My First Visit To America I 've he d Tv shows and movies coming out of America ever since I was born . With that kind of allure to a country started so young it stood to reason that at some time in my travels I was going to plan a visit to America to see if what I 'd seen could hold a bar to the real thing . So how does one undertake their first trip to America then . How does road tripping from Miami to Orlando in a couple of muscle - bound beasts like these ? Then lets throw in a splattering of some of Florida 's to do destinations : Miami Fort Lauderdale Palm Beach Cocoa Beach Orlando With activities such as : Vespa Tour of Wynwood Art District Air Boat ride on the Everglades Museums and Gardens Kennedy Space Center Surf Lessons Swimming with Dolphins Universal Orlando Parks and Resort Take in a bit of Shopping And. . . soak up the sun on some amazing he s And do n't forget to stay at some stunning hotels and eat your weight in food because after all America likes to do it Big . Over the course of the trip I managed to seek out some of the most touristy places Florida has to offer as well as sample living the high life - like all good celebrities seem to do . Over the next few weeks I 'll details my road trip around Florida and what it was like for this Australian to set foot in America for the first time . Trust me I had a ton of fun and he d a few questions I had about what it would be like to be there so please follow along . To read up on everything I did and saw while in Florida please checkout the following posts . Share and bookmark this post : Welcome to America ! It sounds like you 've enjoyed your stay in America . I would like to hear more of your experience there . There are really lots of beautiful places to visit there . And with the foody thing ? yeah , you can find big size even extra large size of different kinds of food that you would definitely enjoy to eat . I 'm an American but I 'm currently out of the country . Steve ( living in Japan) 's latest post . . Hiking Mount Fuji ( travel Guide ) That sounds like a great trip ! I 've always wanted to do the muscle car road trip thing , always imagined a convertible though or maybe a Harley Apparently they party pretty hard in South Florida ? Pete ( about to quit work for long term travel) 's latest post . . Long Term Travel & The Agoraphobia of Quitting I also had always wanted to go to America , its like the cousin you have never met , you grow up hearing about them and know you will meet them one day . When you finally go you recognise so many things but also learn so many things . It 's almost like you know what to expect but the reality is a little different . When we were in New York I recognised sooo many streets from Tv and movies , we walked in Central park and had a real sense of deja vu although we had never ever been there before . Lee Carter 's latest post . . Dear Hotels , Start Taking Wifi Seriously Amazing , I 'm flying out to La next Saturday for two weeks from the Uk doing Vegas , Yosemite and San Francisco - got so much planned . Hopefully some time in the next two years I can save and book route 66 and do it in an old est or something in style . Anyone done route 66 , always been a dream of mine and now I 'm 23 I can hire cars legally around the world ! Surminga 's latest post . . San Alfonso Mar Algarrobo Chile Amazing Swimming Pool Resort It sounds like you had an amazing time . I look forward to reading more . America is so vast , and diverse , that I hope you are able to visit the country further ( international tourists seem to hover around both coasts ) . Miami is Nothing like New York City , Maine , Texas or middle - of - nowhere Missouri . Lane 's latest post . . Spanish Language Tips You should head west to Nola for feasting , then north to explore Ny ( city and state ) visiting national parks and cities in Tennessee on the way , and then over to Maine for some camping in Acadia . Noah Lederman 's latest post . . 37 Hours in Hanoi Welcome to the Us ! I love that aerial photo at the top of your post . I hope you get to check out Chicago too . First - time visitors often hit Miami , Nyc and La , skipping this Midwestern metropolis that absolutely should n't be overlooked . But of course enjoy your time wherever you go ! Pola ( @jettingaround) 's latest post . . The Green Mill - chicago 's landmark jazz club Came across your site and recognized the photo flying over Miami immediately . Look forward to reading your thoughts about America from an Australian perspective ! I made the trip to Australia last year . Let me know if you need any advice on New York ! City Gal 's latest post . . Unconventional Beauty In The Lower East Side Oh I 'll be interested to hear what you thought . We just spent 3 months road tripping around the West Coast with just a few days in Boston and New York at the end . The differences between the two coasts seemed very pronounced to us ! Tracey - life Changing Year 's latest post . . You Do n't Know Shit About The World Until You Travel ! Hey I m excited to hear about your first trip to America . And since your here during football season I feel like that 'd be a great experience for you . During my time in Australia I loved going to rugby he s and Afl games . You should check out some football games . Andrew T. 's latest post . . always living , always learning
3  Sydney When we flew over Sydney from Adelaide , it looked so beautiful . The sky was pink and it was reflecting back on the water . Sydney is a special city , even on first glances due to the fact that it is surrounded by water and has trees everywhere . We have been very lucky to stay with some lovely people here . Before I start , I must talk about the variety of alarms we have had . Charlie ( the cat ) wailing like a ghost in the middle of the night , cockatoos squawking , and kookaburras laughing . On our first day , Judy had the day off work and took us into the city to show us the sights . Seeing the Opera House and the harbour was really amazing . It was weird being there . I had always looked at pictures of Sydney and wanted to go and actually being there was awesome . On the train on the way there , a larger lady tried to get past me to sit down and the train jolted forward while she was moving . The result was her almost sitting on my lap and then saying ' that was a close encounter '. On the harbour are ferries going to different islands and parts of Sydney and they have aboriginals playing the didgeridoo for money . They were pretty good . We went to a nice little pub ( which turned out to one of the oldest in Sydney ) in the Rocks . This is the oldest part of Sydney and is really nice . In the 70s it was threatened with demolition but was saved by the locals . After that we wandered down to the Museum of Contemporary Art and bumped into our mate Prince Charlie who has been following us around Australia . Glad he 's gone home now though , he can n't hold his drink . We ventured to Watson 's Bay with Judy and narrowly missed a I ve storm then walked up to The Gap which had a beautiful view over the ocean . On the Saturday we went with Laura , Ashleigh and Andrew to the Jenolan Caves . On the way we played Animal Bingo as I have been desperate to see a kangaroo , a wallaby , anything . We saw a lot of dead kangaroos as road kill , but no I ve ones and the rules dictates that there was no murder in animal bingo so that did n't count . The caves were awesome though . We had a weird tour guide . We were at the back of the group and at one point when we caught up with him , he was shouting Hasta La Vista And getting the group to shout back Baby . We may have missed the context , but I do n't really know how this relates to limestone caves . At the end of the tour , he said ' i know there are no Americans here , but it Must be someone 's birthday today '. Seeing as the group was only about 20 strong , the assumption that it Must be someone 's birthday was a stupid one and no one admitted to it . He then said it Must have been someone 's birthday yesterday . By this point people were feeling a little awkward and an Indian guy called Mitten was like ' yeah sure , it was my birthday yesterday '. The guide got I m to stand in the middle of the cave and we thought he would illuminate the ceiling to look like candles or something . Actually what he did was turn off all the lights and flash his torch over Mitten 's head while singing happy birthday . Then he said , ' right , tour 's over . Bye '. On the Sunday we visited the famous Bondi Beach with Judy and George , it was a beautiful day and the beach was lovely . I also had my first Golden Gaytime . ( ice cream ) Monday was the first day under our own steam and we decided that due to our poor show on Animal Bingo we should try and fill up our cards . So we went to Taronga Zoo which was awesome . We saw all the Australian wildlife including echidnas and platypus and got our photos taken with a koala . The zoo was the best we have been too not least due to the Australian Walkabout section where none of the animals were in cages and were free to roam . Really cool . On the Tuesday we went and explored the Rocks a bit further and went to the Harbour Bridge . You can climb over the top of it and apparently it has a really good view but it costs $ 200 each so we opted for walking it instead . We also saw the botanic gardens which were really nice and checked out the shopping district . Wednesday saw us going to the Museum of Contemporary Art . It had an installation by an artist where the actual artist was sitting behind a glass screen dancing and lounging about . I gave her a wave . She seemed happy at this . On Thursday we went to Manly which was absolutely beautiful . It 's a lovely beach town and has a coastal walk around the beach . That night was Kate 's birthday and we went out for Thai which was very nice too . Judy had Friday off and we ventured out kangaroo hunting and drove through the national park . Still no kangaroos though . I am doubting their existence to be honest . We also went down to Kiama and saw the ' blowhole ' which is a hole in the cliffs which water explodes through . Apparently , before it was all fenced off , the blowhole sucked a whole family in who stood too close . That night we went to Kings Cross which is notorious for apparently being dodgy as hell and a breeding ground for prostitutes , junkies and drunken teens . We did n't see the former , the latter appeared everywhere we went . Saturday Ashleigh took us to Newtown which was amazing . We checked out the record shops and made Ashleigh buy Cds , checked out markets and got Ashleigh to buy books and ate Mexican . It was ' beautiful ' ( read this in an Australian accent and you will be prepared for one of the new sayings that we are bringing back to the Uk ) . That night we went to Andrew 's house for a Bbq . His place is lovely and backs into the bush . Andrew and George felt bad we had n't seen any wildlife so they hoisted up a huge toy koala into the tree for us . We did see a real life possum though . On our last day we checked out Captain Cook 's landing site and had one last lovely meal before heading off on our epic flight . I had kangaroo steak which is lovely . Ashleigh and Judy took us to the airport and it was a really sad goodbye . We are going to miss the Tesluks and Australia . One Response Wow ! Gorgeous pictures - you obviously had a great time in Australia . Andrew 's koala was obviously tuckered out by the time he had been lassooed into a tree ! Great to see you together with the lovely " tesluks " . xx
3  Yogyakarta 's palace and the family honours The Keraton , Yogyakarta At the palace in the Indonesian city of Yogyakarta , there are two honours passed down through the generations . In both cases , when a son is born , the father knows his child will one day take on a special responsibility . It is the right and the duty of the child to follow in the footsteps of his ancestors . One of these honours is to become the Sultan of Yogyakarta , a hereditary title that dates back to the eighteenth century . The other great honour that stays in the family is to be a guard at the palace . It is not just royalty that passes on the job to the next generation , but also those who dedicate their lives to the royal protection . Today , there are two thousand palace guards in total . Only about one thousand are active , though . It 's a job for life , so as they get older and can n't physically work anymore , they are looked after rather than being thrown out of service . On any particular day there are about one hundred palace guards actually working . The palace is known in Yogyakarta as the Keraton . Although it 's open for visitors in the morning , it is still a functioning part of the political sphere here in the region . The sultan holds that particular title in name , not power , since the declaration of Indonesian independence in 1945 - but he is also automatically the governor of the region . Therefore the Keraton is used for official functions , political meetings , and as the royal residence . There is also a cultural link with the compound and the people . In some ways it is almost a spiritual connection . The Keraton was designed to reflect the Javanese cosmos . It faces towards the volcanic Mount Merapi in one direction and towards the Indian Ocean , home of the important Indonesian sea spirit , in the other . The placement of the pavilions , the courtyards and even the trees all have a significance within the traditional spiritual view of the world by the local people . But , look a bit closer , and you 'll also see in the intricate designs an integration of the faiths that have influenced this part of Indonesia over the years . There are Buddhist , Islamic and Hindi elements to much of the decoration in the central part of the palace . From my experience , most of Indonesia is very proud of their heritage . But those in Yogyakarta seem more enthusiastic than others to continue weaving it into daily modern life . The Keraton and the connection with the people is a strong one . There seems to be a genuine affection and respect for the leadership amongst the people here . This palace complex is the bridge between the old and the new and the faith that binds the cultures . It 's quite a sprawling palace and you can work through different pavillions and see a few different parts . There are also some areas which are closed off because they 're being used by the sultan and his family or staff . What is Time Travel Turtle ? This is the website of travel writer , Michael Turtle . After working in broadcast journalism for a decade in Australia , Michael left Sydney to travel the world indefinitely and write about the places , people and experiences he discovers . This is n't a diary these are real stories from the world .
3  Jm - when Karen Guttridge from Ladyhiker he d me about writing a guest post about Cyprus , I asked if you could cover the whole island in a weekend . She assured me that even in the town of Paphos there was enough to enjoy a sun - soaked weekend of great Mediterranean food , scenic hiking and history . I first visited Paphos on a I m shortly after celebrating the millennium and spent most of my visit shuffling between a beach sun lounger and the string of tavernas lining the coast whilst remaining completely unaware of what lay beyond . Several years later I was the proud ( if slightly rash ) owner of a property and now spend several months here each year masquerading as a writer in the long , welcome stretch of sunshine from March to December . Two things struck me ; The abundance of ancient history around every corner - do n't be surprised to step out of a modern store and shortly afterwards stumble upon genuine Roman columns and ancient burial chambers . The chance to sunbathe and snow ski on the same day . Where else can you be whizzing down a mountain ski slope in the morning and then head off down to the coast for a spot of sunbathing on the beach in the afternoon ? Paphos has been inhabited since the Neolithic period and lies in the South West of the island of Cyprus in the Eastern Mediterranean Sea . The island lies west of Syria and east of Greece with Turkey to the north and Egypt to the south . Things to See and Do Walking around Paphos is like stepping into a museum ; Unesco simply he d and added the whole town to its World Cultural Heritage List . In true Mediterranean style , many ancient monuments and astonishingly well - preserved artefacts were discovered by chance by farmers working the land . A morning in Kato Paphos The area of Kato ( lower ) Paphos , by the sea , is built around the medieval port and contains most of the luxury hotels and is the entertainment hub of the town . A large car park and adjacent bus station make for easy access to this part of town . Most of the sites of interest here are all within 5 - 10 minutes walk of each other and entry is often free of charge . Paphos Fort The 13th century medieval fort is located at the end of the harbour . There is nothing much to see inside but as the entrance fee is so reasonable it 's worth delving inside and taking the stairs to the roof for some great views of the harbour area . Paphos Mosaics Just a few minutes walk from the fort is the entrance to the archaeological park which houses some of the best Roman mosaics in the Mediterranean . Dating from the 3rd to the 5th century Ad , they were discovered by a farmer in 1962 while farming his land . History fans will love this place - there are plaques which I ve a brief description of the content of the mosaics but if you 're interested in detailed information then it 's worth spending a few euros on a guidebook at the entrance gate . The scenes are mainly from Greek mythology depicting hunting and wild animals such as tigers , wild boars , wild goats etc . There are also I ve houses which together would have formed a Roman nobleman 's villa . These are the Houses of Dionysos , Theseus , Aion , Orpheus and Four Seasons . Also within the park is the remains of the Saranda Kolones Byzantine castle . Its name means " 40 columns " referring to the number of granite columns found in the ruins . Try counting them to check ! Do n't forget your camera as the he s and columns backed by the sea make for some great shots . As with most sightseeing in Paphos there is very little shade so be sure to wear plenty of sunscreen plus a hat and take lots of water . St Paul 's Pillar Just across the road from the mosaics is St Paul 's Pillar . It is widely believed that this is where the apostle was tied in 45 Ad and given 39 he s before he finally converted the Roman governor Sergius Paulus to Christianity . This plaque is also close by and marks the spot where the king of Denmark died on his way to the Holy land in 1103 . Next to St Paul 's Pillar is the remains of the Frankish baths - one of the few Frankish buildings that has survived earthquakes and Turkish rule in Cyprus . Agia Solomonis Catacombs A 5 minute stroll along the nearby Leoforos Apostolou Pavlou road lies the Agia Solomoni Catacomb Church . This tomb complex is the final resting place of the seven local Machabee Brothers , who were martyred and buried here roughly 2,200 years ago . The site is small and low key so just a pay a brief visit . At the entrance to the tombs is a huge terebinth tree covered with knotted handkerchiefs and rags as offerings from the faithful . Legend has it that anyone who fastens a piece of his or her clothing to the he s of the tree is cured of chronic illness . Open : Daily Admission : Free Agios Lambrianos Rock - cut Tomb Next to the catacombs are two huge underground caves , believed to date from the beginning of the Hellenistic period and a former place of Christian worship . Just a brief peek inside will suffice and again there is a well - draped terebinth tree marking the entrance . Open daily and a dmission : free Tombs of the Kings A 30 minute walk or 5 - 10 minute bus ride from the harbour area is the I ve underground Tombs of the Kings , carved out of solid rock and dating back to the 4th century Bc . The name is misleading as the tombs contain the remains of Paphos Vips and not royalty but this does n't detract from the overall impression . Eight tomb complexes are highlighted by numbers and invite a visit . Wander freely through the caves and pillars but watch out for steep drops ! The bodies would have been buried with gifts , ornaments and jewellery but the tombs have been looted extensively over the years . Any finds are now exhibited in the Paphos Archaeological Museum . Aphrodite 's Baths Around 45 - 60 minutes I ve from Paphos centre is the undeveloped , natural beauty of The Akamas peninsula . This is a great spot for hiking with several well - marked trails . Two such trails start from the Baths of Aphrodite , a crystal clear pool and bubbling spring where legend has it that Aphrodite the Greek goddess of love used to bathe . There is free parking , a restaurant and entry is free of charge . Both the Aphrodite Trail and the Adonis Trail are around 8km in length and will take around 3 - 4 hours to complete ( with stops ) . You 'll also need to be fairly fit and sure footed to cope with the occasional steep climbs and hairy descents ! If hiking is not your bag then do just stroll the first 10 - 15 minutes into the Aphrodite Trail for some fabulous photo opportunities along the coastline . Note : Although it is possible to travel by bus from Paphos to Aphrodite 's Baths the journey is not direct and requires a change . My advice would be to visit the Akamas region if you plan to hire a car for the duration of your stay in Paphos . However , if you 're still keen to follow Aphrodite then instead take a 45 minute bus ride east from Paphos to Petra Tou Romiou better known as Aphrodite 's Rock , the mythical birthplace of the goddess . Apparently , if you I m naked around the rock 3 times at midnight you will emerge ten years younger ! The beach is largely shingle with strong sea currents . Food and Drink A good way to experience a whole range of Cypriot he s in one meal is by ordering a Meze . This selection of local he s ranges from delicious dips such as taramasalata , tzatziki and houmous to vegetables and a variety of fish and meats . Try loukanika the spicy local sausage and souvlakia , Cypriot kebabs . Other he s include tasty , slow cooked meat stews such as stifado ( beef ) , afelia ( pork ) and kleftiko ( lamb ) and do sample halloumi the famous grilled cheese . Calamari ( squid ) is popular as are dolmades - vine leaves usually stuffed with minced beef , rice and various spices . Make sure you 're hungry - a traditional Cypriot meze can comprise of up to 30 he s and just keeps coming until you beg them to stop ! Expect to pay somewhere in the region of _15.00 to _20.00 . The quality of food in Paphos is excellent and almost every cuisine imaginable is available with vegetarians being well catered for too . Beer , Bars and Pubs The local beer is Keo and a pint costs around _2.50 , depending on venue . For a lively night out head for Bar Street with its string of pubs and snack bars . Some very good local wines are available including Agios Onoufrios ( dry red ) and Vasilikon ( dry white ) . Local stores charge around _5 per bottle . How to get there Cyprus has two airports - larnaca on the Eastern side and Paphos in the West . Paphos is served by British Airways , Klm , Thomson , easyjet , Jet2 and Monarch . Buses run hourly from Paphos airport into the centre of Paphos and the journey is approximately 40 minutes . A bit of orientation Here 's a handy map laying out all the sights mentioned above to I ve you an idea of where things are in Paphos . Click on the markers to see the sight listed and zoom and pan around to see more of the map . Get around in Paphos Taking the bus is a convenient method of getting around , and it is certainly inexpensive . Buses from the station usually run every 10 , 15 and 30 minutes . A one way ticket during the day costs _1 and a daily ticket ( unlimited journeys ) costs _3 ( valid until 2300hr ) . A n ight - time ticket one way is _2.50 . Visit Cyprus By Bus for information on public transport http : Where to Stay There is a wide choice of accommodation within walking distance of the harbour to suit most budgets . For keener budgets I have heard I ve reviews of The Agapinor Hotel http : which is just a short bus ride from the harbour . Also check Hostel Bookers http : Budget The currency in Cyprus is the Euro . Accommodation and meal prices vary widely depending on hotel but the cost of getting around and entry to most sites of interest is very reasonable . A couple of euros will cover a pitta bread snack and a local beer costs from _2 . A single trip bus journey costs _1 . Conclusion Cyprus offers an exotic mix of sights , tastes and experiences by virtue of its position at the crossroads of Europe , Africa , and the Middle East . On occasion , I 've asked several visitors to Paphos why they chose to visit and the three top responses are : The history , the guaranteed sunshine and the spring and autumn hiking opportunities with abundant flora and fauna . Additionally , ease of movement around Paphos is good . Traffic problems are a rarity thus offering the possibility to pack lots into a relatively short stay ! Bookmark and Share 5 Comments For This Post I 'd Love to Hear Yours ! I visited this region 6years ago now and visited the mosaics and the Tomb of the Kings . I enjoyed the region though seeing this I think it 's time for a revisit . We were there in March 2006 and the weather was poor with one good day out of the seven . I loved the diversity of Cyprus though . I just saw some cheap flights to Cyprus and was considering going , not so sure what I would be seeing though . Great article , some really good insights in what to see I ve nomad recently posted . . Chapter 35 : Crossing the bridge [ 2 ] What I love about Paphos is that it 's still a quiet area that has n't been spoilt by masses of tourists . I 've just moved here from the Uk and love it ! Jayne Pugh recently posted . . Nominations , Classes & The Wedding Show I have to admit , I was n't aware you could ski on cyprus . You 're right , there are n't many places on earth where you can go skiing and lay on a beach in the same day ( make that a warm beach ) . Offhand , Granada comes to mind , but there must be at least a few others . Daniel Mcbane - funny Travel Stories recently posted . . monkeying around on the motorbike loop
3  On top of the world Despite our promises of an early night last night inadvertently turned out to be a late one , a young woman who was parked next to us got chatting , Andy offered her a cup of tea as after some chatting we found out that Liz had no means of cooking or even boiling water for a cup of tea . We were sitting around chatting ( actually I was less chatty as I was finishing the blog off ready to publish ) , a while later Kirsty and Andrew joined us and it was another round of tea 's and Andy 's jokes seem to keep Kirsty laughing , I think a new found audience is good for Andy as all of his old jokes can get he d at again . So we did not get into bed until around 11.00 but thankfully there was no alcohol involved to make getting up in the morning harder . We both had a restless night , the wind was strong , the tent kept billowing and we kept hearing noises as things clattered around outside . The alarm went off at 6.00am ( oh no , it felt far too early and it was still dark! ) , I jumped out of bed , and got the kettle on , our Camelbak had been made up , the additional drinks , first aid kit and bits and pieces were already packed ready to go . We were off to walk the loop this morning , which is in situated in Kalbarri National Park , and as we wanted to get a good start on the day , we needed to be away fairly sharpish . Yesterday , we went to reccy the walk and it was most probably mid to late 30's in temperature at around 11.00 in the morning , it is usually 10 degree 's hotter in the gorge so we needed to be prepared and get most of the walk done before it got too hot . Leaving the camp site at 7.00 am we were off the bitumen at 7.15 with a 30 kilometre corrugated sand road all the way up to the start of the walk . The morning was looking beautiful though it was still windy , the sun was fairly low in the sky and was blinding as we negotiated the roads . In Kalbarri National Park there is no camping allowed or the rangers hand out instant fines if they " catch you " , however when we pulled in there were two cars who had made no attempt to disguise the fact that they had stayed the night there . In other words if they were smart about it then they would have been up early and made it look as if they had just arrived for an early walk . Parking the truck , we put on our hiking boots , our hats and rucksacks and set off noting that it was exactly 8.01am . After " natures Window " we pick up the white markers that will direct us to the ridge , but before we get onto the ridge a Caution sign is obvious and states that you should turn back now if : you are not confident with heights , you are not cautious , you do n't have enough water ( 3 litres minimum each ) , if you are not reasonably fit , if you have not got the correct footwear ( i.e . closed in hiking boots ) . We were ok with all of this so on we hiked . " the loop " , is a class 4 walk and starts and ends at " natures Window " running along the top of the rocky ridge giving an excellent I ve of the Murchison river below . The views from the top were We were hoping to see a Thorny Devil today as apparently they are in abundance in the National Park , but early on we see a Nanny Goat and her Kid , once we were further in along the ridge we see a Kangaroo and its Joey . They know we are there they watch us as much as we watch them , when they get bored they hop off into the bush . Eventually the walk takes us down the cliffs and we descend on to one of the beaches , this view is just beautiful , we are in the gorge on sand where some red gums offer shade from the already hot sun . We walked along the beach until it ran out and we picked up the rocky overhang , which does overhang the water the white markers tell you roughly which way to go , however the signage does say it is not a defined path so you do have to work some bits out for yourself . We sit down under one of the overhangs ( for shade ) , for a short breather a biscuit and something to drink . When it is time to move on we find that we are at an impass where the only thing we could do was to scale about 4ft of rock . Hmm , this could pose a problem and we pondered if it was a point where we should turn back or can we get over this rock ? Andy looked to see if we could crawl underneath an overhang , the bit Andy crawled along was itself an overhang and below was just water , this was the problem . A moment or two later we see a man coming along the beach and as he gets to us we ask I m about getting around , fortunately he has done this walk before and he explained how and where we should get up . Not far behind I m his girlfriend appears and with ease she scales this rock . With her advice I put my hand on the rocky surface above which gives me a good hold , then with Andy 's help my feet find something to rest on and I lever myself up this rock face . Quickly followed by Andy we thank this couple for their help and on we go . This couple are not hanging around ( she has a bus to catch apparently so they need to get done ) , and off they yomp into the distance , while Andy and I pick our way over the rocks stopping for the occasional photo or just simply to admire this fantastic scenery that is right in front of us . All of those millions of years that it took to layer the rock and the millions of years it took for the water to carve its way through making this tremendous gorge so full of colour from the many layers . If you look closely then you can see where the level of the water used to be and in fact at one point we seem to be walking on the riverbed , where deadwood had obviously floated down the river and trapped itself on other obstacles , the ground below us was a mixture of sand and rock . The sand made it hard for hiking through it felt like we had lead weights in our boots and we were walking on the moon . I am not sure how high the river is supposed to get in the rainy season , however some of the markers for the walk I am sure must get submerged when the river rises , so perhaps they close the walk sometimes . Otherwise perhaps it has not been that high in years . The day was getting hotter and every now and again we stop for a drink and a rest in the shade . We are thankful for our fly nets , oh perhaps I should have mentioned these earlier . When we did a reccy yesterday we found the flies to be quite a nuisance ( we may have mentioned those bl**dy flies!!! ) , and considering a number of people were walking around with fly nets over their hats , we just had to go and buy some . So for $ 8.75 each we had an 8 kilometre walk in I ve comfort without having to continually swat flies . Yes they were on our arms , legs , sat on our clothing but as long as they are not in your face you do n't really care . When we would stop for a biscuit we would hold the biscuit inside the net in the vain hope that no fly would be clever enough to work out a way in , for the best part that seemed to work but as we were nearing our destination both Andy and myself found a fly It was hot , we were enjoying the walk , but really now looking forward to getting back to the top and into our lovely lovely air - conditioned truck . We came round the river bend and we see high above us " natures Window " , yes the end was insight . Knowing that when we got back to that point we only had about 500metres walk left . So now we would leave the edge of the river and start walking gradually back up the incline using the white markers for guidance and picking our way through fallen rock looking for the sturdy ones to stand on . Before we knew it we were back on the top ridge and back at " natures Window " . Wow , we made it , well nearly , we still had 500 metres to go . I remembered that yesterday when we came down to Natures Window we saw a young girl wearing a bikini and thongs ( flip flops ) , nothing else just sunglasses , no hat , no t - shirt etc . Now , maybe I am starting to sound my age , but this environment is unfriendly it is hot and it can get exceptionally hot as we mention before that the gorge is usually 10 degrees hotter than the temperature at the top . There are warning signs that this place has floored even very fit people . " heat Stroke can kill " there is no question about it . This girl has made no effort to protect herself from the sun and the searing heat , with a group of young lads ( who I hasten to add are wearing shorts and t - shirts ) , not one of them carrying a bottle of water , they venture down into the gorge , oh yes no sensible footwear just wearing thongs ( flip flops ) . Although it is not summer , these temperatures will still catch you out , the temperature is still in its 30's despite being 2 weeks off winter . Even if you intend on swimming at the bottom of the gorge , the terrain is so uneven to walk on it would be too easy to stumble at the most inopportune moment , lets face it I am expert on that matter remembering my face I ve into the boardwalk on Cradle Mountain and I was wearing the appropriate gear , this is not the terrain to be messing around with . Everybody we bumped into yesterday commented on the girl in the bikini , well all the women commented how stupid she was being ( killing yourself for a suntan is not worth it ) but most of the guys could not possibly comment while their tongues remained hanging out on the deck . We bumped into Liz a little bit further up from Natures Window , stopping briefly for a chat , before our final ascent to the top and back to the car park . Phew we made it the time was 12.20 , a little bit over 4 hours , but we knew that we may take a while longer because we stop frequently to admire the scenery and take in our surroundings and of course taking plenty of photos . On the way back to camp a bird flew out in front of us but unfortunately it got caught in the down draught and was pulled underneath the truck , in the mirror was sadly a pile of feathers laying in the middle of the road . I felt very sad about that , especially that is the second bird that we have hit recently , only a few day ago a big white bird glanced off the windscreen causing a big smudge , but we could not see what happened to the Back at camp it was time for a refreshing cup of tea , a shower and the rest of the afternoon sat around reading a book , oh what bliss ! This evening we asked Liz if she wanted to join us for dinner so late afternoon she appeared with a bottle of wine , Coke and some I m Tams . Liz sat with us for a cup of tea while we all lazed around reading . When it got dark we went and cooked dinner , one of Andy 's delicious pasta meals with Chorizo and Bacon he d down with a bottle of Semillon Sauvignon Blanc . We were exhausted and Andy was edging for an early night , so he went back to camp , I he d drinking the wine with Liz . Liz is from New Zealand and is taking 5 months to have a I ve round Australia . When the wine was he d I retired to my bed with my book , it was a little too early for me to sleep , but the book is so good it is hard to put down anyway . Have you ever woken up one morning and wondered where the time went ? It seems only yesterday that we were in our 20's and the very next day you wake up and you are in your 40's , how did that happen ? When did that happen ? So feeling weary of a Corporate life and both of us feeling somewhat unsettled and craving for something a little different , life was a bit too orderly and dare I say a bit too easy , knowing that there was something out there , we needed an adventure so we set about getting an adventure and an adventure we have had . Andy and I ( caroline ) have just completed , oh actuall. . . full info Aboriginal settlers arrived on the continent from Southeast Asia about 40,000 years before the first Europeans began exploration in the 17th century . No formal territorial claims were made until 1770 , when Capt . James Cook Took Possession In The Name.   More Info
3  Savouring Patagonia - and the End of the World , in Buenos Aires Barely an hour on the ground in Buenos Aires and we were headed for Experiencia Del Fin Del Mundo for an overview of Argentina wine with Andr s Rosberg ( president of the Argentina Sommeliers Association ) , before a regional tasting of wines from Patagonia . The restaurant ( owned by the winery of the same name ) is leading the charge in Buenos Aires , showcasing Patagonia 's role as an up and coming region . ( hardly new , though , some of Patagonia 's plantings have been around for nigh on 100 years or more , although there are plenty of new wineries , as land is still relatively affordable . ) What 's interesting , aside from the excellent food , is that the restaurant also selflessly promotes all Patagonian wines well beyond their own . This was a great introduction , in part because it was n't Mendoza , which tends to get all the attention - and where we 'll be later in the week . Patagonia ( which we will n't have time to visit , as it 's too far south ) is interesting for its stony soils and big diurnals ( the temperature difference between day and night ) , which often as not results in wines with great acidity and minerality . There were some good surprises , starting with Humberto Canale Riesling 2011 ( does n't everything start with Riesling ? If it does n't , it should . . . ) through to Familia Shroeder 's Deseado Torrontes sparkler , with which we 're already familiar , but which was a fun match for the almond and praline crumble dessert . ( we 're surprised it does n't mention Torrontes on the label - which would surely help increase awareness around Argentina 's " own " white wine of choice . ) The Riesling is from Canale 's ' old Vineyard ' range , which wowed with its ' 09 Merlot , while another show - stopper was Fin Del Mundo 2007 Cabernet Franc . . . ( tasting notes and more of our our picks coming shortly . ) Here 's a few facts , some that might surprise you. . . Prior to 1991 Argentina wine exports totaled just some $ 5 million annually . Today they they amount to around $ 1 billion . . . . some good surprises Argentina itself enjoys a robust and he d wine culture . Walk into any restaurant and you 'll find a bottle on almost every table . That 's true , as we found out when we went to La Cabrera , a bustling ' parilla ' ( steak house ) in Palermo district . Every table had a bottle of Malbec and a bottle of Cab Sauv . on special offer for the equivalent of about $ 40 . You get to drink one and take the other bottle home . ( in the end they brought us a bottle of Don Niconor Nieto Blend 2010 , whose spicy mid - palate turned out to be excellent with the Morcilla - blood sausage . ) Argentina is the seventh largest wine market in the world ( the 6th largest producer ) , with an average annual consumption of 26 litres per person - down from about 85 litres a generation ago . Unlike other countries there 's no national spirit as such , although there 's a disproportionate amount of Fernet Branca and Coke consumed . It 's really all about wine . And beef , of course . Area offers lots of varieties Short of heading south , way south in this vast country , the best way to experience Patagonia is to book in at Experiencia Del Fin Del Mundo in the capital 's bustling Palermo district . The edgy , warm , dark wood - toned restaurant ( owned by the winery of the same name ) is leading the charge in Buenos Aires , showcasing Patagonia 's role as an up and coming region . ( even though some plantings have been around for nigh on 100 years or more , Argentina 's southernmost wine country is all too often eclipsed by more familiar Mendoza . ) What 's compelling about Experiencia - aside from its truly excellent food - is the restaurant 's selfless promotion of many other Patagonian wines well beyond its own . The region is renowned for its stony soils and big diurnals ( the temperature difference between day and night ) , which often as not results in wines with great acidity and minerality . If Mendoza is perceived as being all about Malbec ( it is , although there 's plenty more to discover too ) then Patagonia can lay I m to a veritable wealth of other varieties that flourish , including Pinot Noir , Merlot and Riesling , not to mention Torrontes and , yes , more Malbec . Civil engineer Humberto Canale is credited with breathing life into the barren region when he initiated an early 1900s irrigation project from the Rio Negro that effectively turned the desert into a green and flourishing area suitable for all kinds of agriculture , including viticulture . Here 's a selection ( too small ) of Patagonia drops available locally . Given the quality of what we tasted , we can only hope for more to show up soon .
3  Post navigation My first time in The Gambia Arriving into The Gambia for the first time was an experience in itself . The heat hits you ; the hustle and bustle of the locals welcoming you into their country and the feeling of sheer amazement that just 6 hours away there is a completely different world . Once at our transfers I was delighted to be welcomed by a bottle of cold refreshing water , cool wipes and a fan - looking around at fellow travellers , I could see this was very thoughtful and needed gift from The Gambia Experience . We were transferred to Kombo Beach just in time to unpack and focus our attention on the sunset , first of many in The Gambia . Such an array of colours and a beautiful addition to the evening . I have never been to a developing country and was quite dubious about the feelings that would overcome me . But ever since arriving in The Gambia all I felt was a humbling nature , in fact through all the hardship many locals have had to overcome I see a sense of unity and happiness . Although there are problems with bumsters , I never felt unsafe - just a firm ' no thank you ' sufficed . Thumbs up ! Throughout the week we went on a couple of excursions , my favourite being the 4 x 4 excursion . ' the Real Africa ' as described by the tour guides gave us the opportunity to get a real feel for local life and culture in The Gambia . We drove through Serekunda observing the colourful markets and busy day to day lives . My personal highlight was visiting one of the local schools . Arriving at the school you can feel a real sense of excitement from the pupils . We were welcomed with an African musical performance , followed by a visit into the classrooms . A few cheeky characters meant my camera was in constant use , which added to the charm and charisma of the visit . The rest of the journey involved a visit to a compound , meeting a local family who welcomed us warmly into their home . Then onto Sanyang beach where we had a simple but delightful lunch , relaxed on hammocks and went for a I m in the warm waters of the Atlantic Ocean . After a long day & plentiful activities I was left with a sense of local familiarity I knew could not be experienced if I were to spend my time solely around the hotel . When visiting the hotels it became very clear that the Gambians are hard workers and create a feeling of warm welcoming , although rather comically ' gmt ' ( gambian Maybe Time ) is often used to describe their relaxed approach. . . Eating out in The Gambia was a pleasant surprise , with most restaurants offering a buffet and a la carte menu . Ngala Lodge was a hidden gem and offered an I ve menu varying from local cuisine and European dishes . Another restaurant which we thoroughly enjoyed was the Captains Table connected to the Bakotu hotel . Margo was extremely welcoming and the food was fantastic . We got told the tail of her new additions to the Bakotu , which was truly phenomenal - worth a visit to see the 72 + tortoises . A restaurant I am sad we did n't dine in was the Calypso in Cape Point - a haven for beach goers , a lovely spot on the beach under canopies looking over Senegal . There seemed to be so many places to dine in on the Kololi strip and I never ate a bad meal whilst out there . Like I said , a pleasant surprise - but the gym was calling my name once back at home ! ! The pool at Mandina I felt Mandina was a divine forest getaway , personally providing the best pool in the Gambia . A wonderful reception by Lawrence who has ran the property for over 10 years - the passion just pours out of him . The attention to detail was second to none and proved a hit with me ! But due to being in the heart of the forest , there was lack of activities so I would only stay there for 3 days max for a relaxing get away combined with a twin centre . In 7 days I have seen and done many things - not to mention coming face to face with a crocodile ! It was my first time in Africa and it certainly will not be the last . The Gambia has left me wanting to experience more of the smiling coast and i am looking forward to visiting again .
3  We 're baaack ! First week ( and a bit ) in Sydney ! Soooo , we said last year that a trip to Australia might be on the cards and pretty much one year later here we are ! We will n't be updating this blog as extensively as we did on our trip around the Usa , we will mainly be using this to upload photos for our family and friends to view , however we will I ve a little overview of what we have been up to ! So after much deliberation , we decided to pack up and head to the land of Oz on working holidays , and decided that November would be a good time to I ve what with the weather getting better over here ( and progressively worse in the Uk ! ) and there possibly being a few more jobs available in the run up to Christmas . We left the Uk on the 31st October and arrived in Sydney on the 2nd November ( an extra day due to the time difference , although the journey was loonng!! ) . We flew with Air New Zealand and purchased the ' skycouch ' option , which was definitely worth the money ! This basically meant that we had the seat next to us free and also a leg rest thing that could come all the way up so that we could essentially both lie down along the seats . We both got a few hours sleep on the overall 26 hour flying time which definitely made it a bit more bearable ! We seemed to go the long way round , with a 2 hour stopover in Los Angeles , followed by a transfer in Auckland before getting on our plane to Sydney . We spent the first week in a hostel in King 's Cross , which was pretty basic but we had our own room and ensuite , plus a little kitchenette area with a fridge , so it was n't too bad ! We had originally planned to stay there for 2 weeks , however we managed to secure an apartment in Randwick from the second week , so we changed our reservation at the hostel and they kindly refunded the money that we had paid for the second week . The area around King 's Cross was not great so we 're quite glad that we 're not staying there any longer than needed ( it 's kind of a backpacking area with some questionable people that hang around at all hours! ) , however the area around our apartment is lovely and feels much safer - it 's a bit more suburban and full of singing birds and trees rather than junkies and prostitutes ! Most of our first week was spent exploring the city of Sydney . We had a walk around the main Cbd and the shops there , the shops at Bondi Junction , went to Bondi Beach and had a walk around the area surrounding the Opera House and Harbour Bridge , and took in the views of these from the lovely Botanic Gardens ( surrounded by wild cockatoos! ) . We bought transport passes for the week which enabled us to use the buses , trains and ferries to get around the city , and particularly took advantage of the ferries to get some great views of the harbour and the opera house . We also purchased Merlin Annual Passes , which we have so far used to go to the Aquarium , a small wildlife park which specialises in Australian animals , and a Sealife sanctuary in Manly . There are eight other attractions that we can also visit on our passes that we will be visiting during our time in Oz ! We also took the 6km coastal walk from Coogee Beach ( which is now our local beach ! ) to Bondi Beach , which gave us amazing coastal views At the minute , neither of us have been successful in our job hunt , although we have applied for a fair few jobs online , and we will be handing our Cvs around to a few different shops in the local area , so fingers crossed we will find one each fairly soon ! We moved into our new apartment on Friday 9th November and so we have settled in nicely , and will be staying here until 20th January , when we will then probably find another apartment within Sydney to stay here for a few more months ( depending on the job situation ) before moving onto somewhere new within the country ! We 've uploaded most of the photos that we have taken so far showing some of the stuff that we have been up to , and also some pics of our apartment . We have n't really been taking Loads of photos but we will try to take the camera out with us more and will be uploading more pictures in a few weeks in another entry to let you know how we are getting on ! We have previously travelled around the United States for two and a half months and are now on a trip to Australia on working holiday visas , with a few stops in New Zealand , the Cook Islands and the Usa on our way back to the Uk later next year . We will be updating this blog so that we can share our photos and experiences with family and friends.. . . full info Britain 's American colonies broke with the mother country in 1776 and were recognized as the new nation of the United States of America following the Treaty of Paris in 1783 . During the 19th and 20th centuries , 37 new states were added to the origina. . . more info
3  It 's unlikely you will have heard of Kasongo , unless you have a particular interest in Africa 's slave history . It was here , about 130 years ago , that a Swahili businessman named Tippu Tip he d a headquarters for the shipment of slaves to east Africa . From this small provincial outpost , in what is now Maniema Province in the Drc , thousands of Africans were he d eastwards towards the Indian Ocean and the island of Zanzibar . Those that survived were held in chains and waited to be sold to Arab traders . A circular column of bricks some ten metres high stands in Kasongo as a memorial to this chapter of history . It 's about as visually interesting to visit as you would imagine a circular column of bricks to be . There is no plague or information and the site looks as neglected as the rest of the town . It was not a huge regret I was n't carrying my camera when someone pointed it out to me . Kasongo is more than a day 's travel from anywhere can nt in the Drc . Like most towns in the country there is no public transport to places such as this . One or two overloaded and ancient trucks may leave the provincial capital of Kindu every week to journey here , and inevitably break - down or get stuck along the way , but unless one has a bicycle the only other realistic option of getting here is by motorbike - a 240km journey that will cost a passenger about $ 150.the price of petrol , $ 4 - 5 per litre , is as good an indication of remoteness as that of beer and tinned sardines - both several times the normal price . Most people are trapped here because of the cost and scarcity of transport . Usually when I first I ve in a Congolese town I quickly find myself sitting in an bare - walled office or mud - brick shack whilst someone working for the Dgm ( immigration bureau ) studies my passport and asks the usual what , why and where questions . At first I used to fear these encounters , for they often involved a bogus ' registration fee ', which I politely refused to pay , and I would have to explain in detail what my motives for travelling in the country were . More recently , or as I 've progressed eastwards in the country , the authorities have become softer and the call for payments rarer . In Kindu the chief of immigration wanted to practice his English and tell me about his recent trip to London , and here in Kasongo I seemed to go completely undetected . It was me in actual fact who went in search of the Dgm bureau . I wanted to tell them I was in Kasongo and planning to head east through a region that many people had remarked as being unstable . They reassured me that the road to Kabambare , the next notable town , was calm , but that I should continue to ask locals and seek information along the way . I briefly met Hiromu again before heading off . He was hobbling towards me with a limp . Walking with tropical ulcers on your ankles is painful . We were probably the only two foreigners that had been in Kasongo for weeks , but we were staying in different places . When I parted from I m a few days earlier on the road I 'd suggested meeting at the Catholic Mission , which usually has rooms , but instead chose to stay in a cheap guest house close to the market . His plan was to head directly from Kasongo to Bukavu , whereas mine was to follow smaller tracks eastwards to Lake Tanganyika . I never saw I m again after this short encounter . On leaving Kasongo it took me the best part of a week before I caught sight of the lake . The tracks were in a bad state and probably the same ones those slaves had been he d eastwards on . The landscape alternated between jungle and savanna , broken by the usual villages that have probably changed very little in the last century . Here people received me with the same incredulous , but welcoming hospitality I 've become familiar with now in the Congo . There were no other motorised vehicles on these tracks , and finding food presented the usual challenges . If a village had bananas or groundnuts I bought them . If rice and beans were available I stopped to eat . As I crossed from Maniema province into South Kivu the military presence became more noticeable in the villages . Here the landscape also changed as green mountains rose high above me . I continued to ask about the road ahead . Yes there had been incursions on the road by Interhamwe , but for the past few months the situation was calm . What danger there might have been was not evident . People smiled , he d and waved as they have throughout the Drc . For the most part I felt safe and confident . The landscape and views dominated my attention . This was the most scenic part of the Congo I 'd seen . Perhaps if I 'd known more I would have been more fearful of my surroundings . In a bizarre change of events and environments I found myself wake - boarding , or rather attempting to wake - board , shortly after arriving at Lake Tanganyika . Now this I never would have predicted several days earlier when pedalling though one of those villages in the jungle . I had arrived in Baraka , which looked like another remote village from my map , but is something of a transport hub for South Kivu . There are even several street lights on the main thoroughfare here , which after a few weeks in rural Maniema province gives the place a more urban feel than I 've been used to for a while . The wake - boarding came about through another mzungu . He found me washing my he s in the courtyard of a $ 5 per night Guest House . " My Log guy told me there was another cyclist in town so I asked I m to find you . " Stefan is from Romania and has been living in Baraka for the past two years , working for a German development company . At some point in the past I think I stumbled upon his website , for he 's done plenty of cycling touring himself . We had plenty to talk about and I soon moved over to his place . He raved about the cycling and scenery in Burundi , and for a moment I considered changing my plans and crossing a different border . But it 's Rwanda that 's next up . My time in the Drc is coming to an end , but there 's still another blog post to come . Comments Rob Mather 11 May 2011 at 16:45 Peter , incredible scenery , brilliant photos . Glad you are through Drc and safe . Are you headed for Malawi ? 20,000 nets about to I ve there for distribution and more to follow . Take care . Email me or Skype . Stay safe . Best , Rob You seem to be hinting at trouble to come . I hope you are safe . Am really starting to worry about Hiromu . He is n't on a suicide mission is he ? And that photo of all the kids together in the sunshine is stunning ! Looking forward to the next post , Diane Great photos , Pete . It looks like beautiful scenery . And your piece about the slave trade history at the beginning is very poignant . It seems to typify the history of Africa by way of the troubles of the past and the struggles of the presence . All men dream but not equally . Those who dream by night in the dusty recesses of their minds , wake in the day to find that it was in vanity . But the dreamers of the day are dangerous men , for they may act their dreams with open eyes to make it possible .
3  Last Day In Hanoi Night Train to Hue ( sorry no spell check where I 'm at now so this entry will be very raw ) So here are some notes I took in my paper journal during my last day ( without Jared ) in Hanoi : Stayed in the hotel until noon ! Then I ventured out to find the Sinh Ha trval office in the old quarter . Surprisingly I found it with no problem ( the old quarter is notoriously difficult to navagate ) but when I arrived they were closed ! I then decided to get totally lost people kept yelling at me " moto " but I refured . It is so easy to look like a tourist when you are the only white person for several blocks....that alone ( being a racial minority in a place ) is a valuable and interesting experience . So now ( when I wrote this in the journal ) I am lost and it looks like it will rain . If it does , it will be the first rain I 've seen all trip . I 've stopped at a cafe by West Lake ( across from the Mauseleum which is heavily guarded by Vietnamese solidgers with heavy machine looking guns ) to have a coffee yoghurt ( very , very nice ) . One nice thing about facing the lake at this cafe is that I do n't have to watch people staring at me . Thunder ! It just dropped like 10 degrees too ! But one of the things you are supposed to do in Hanoi is to hang out at a cafe with a silly coffee drink , so here I am . The young couple next to me are drinking 3 - layered coffee drinks ( three different colored tiers of coffee ) . Strangly , the second waitress at this cafe ( the only person here who seems to speak english ) asked me if I was a professor in America ( before she even heard my accent ) . I was amazed and said " yes!i am a teacher how did you know ? " " i just good at knowing those things , " she responded . Lessons learned at cafes : 1 . Women do n't try to hussle you as much as men ( or cheat you as much ) . Solidarity . 2 . People really do n't want to take old looking bills . 3 . No one here seems to care about the very important distinction between coke and pepsi . ( from memory not from my journal) . . After the cafe I wandered around some more and decided to try to eat some street food . The first place I tried to sit down , men mad sucking noises at me , so I got up and left ( i then noticed I was the only woman in the place , besides the cook ) . The second place I went to there were small children running around , who then swarmed me when I sat down . I just met a lovely little girl named Liquin , who was super interested in my journal and pen . I ate pho ( with beef I do n't really know how to order anything else , and Nothing looks vegetarian ) . I learned that pho is not pronouced Pha , like we do in Seattle . If you say Pha , they think you mean tofu . Pho , noodle soup , is pronounced , Pha - ua sort of....more or less . And there does not seem to be any such thing as Pha Pha - ua ( tofu pho ) . Oh well . Some lists : Things I 'm Really Happy I Brought - dramimine - baby powder ( thanks for the tip , Fareed ) - my journal - misty no - rub sunscreen - wonderful , expensive , travel underpants ( totally worth it ) . Things ( so far ) I wish I had brought : - written more Vietnamese sentences in my journal - moist towelettes - something to hand out to the children I 've met Eating pho while it is hot outside is somehow , strangly , cooling and wonderful . Some other observations while walking around cafes street places : 1 . Several people have been curious about my left handedness 2 . If I am sitting at a communial table , I have to invite people to sit down with me , otherwise they seem scared . 3 . Any cafe will let you sit for as long as you would like . Fakes I 've Seen on the Street 1 . Fake H&m store 2 . Fake Nine West shop 3 . Fake K - mart 4 . Fake North Face everything ! 5 . Fake Chaco sandals ( i 've seen quite a few Vietnamese people wearing them ) . Okback to the narrative : After lunch , I went back to the travel office ( now open ) and booked my bus ticket from Hue to Hoi An ( hoi An is where " the Quiet American " was set and shot ) . I also found a silk sleep sac on the street , which I purchased for 50,000 dong ( like $ 2.50 ) . I then went to go see the Hanoi Water Puppet show . Jared 's friend Austin told I m it was " lame , " but I thought it was really lovely . There was a Vietnamese orchestra beside a pool of water . The pupets emerged from the water and told the story of the different Vietnamese tribes . According to the water pupets , a swan and a dragon had sex and it produced 100 eggs which turned into the 100 tribes of Vietnam . While all the tribes have their different traditions ( all of which were acted out by differently dress water puppets ) , the Vietnamese people are united in work and struggle with the land . The narration of the puppet show was hardcore Vietnamese propaganda , and was utterly facinating . The audience was split between Vietnamese people and Western tourists . Subsequently , I got totally and utterly lost somehow and negotiated for a $ 1 motorbike ride back to the hotel ( which really should have only been a few blocks away , but I got so lost ) . The motorbike rider also got totally lost , so a 1 mile trip turned into many , many miles with us pulling over and looking at maps . I gave the nice gentleman $ 2 twice what he asked and he seemed pleased . Back at the hotel , they were waiting for me with water and gave me a towel to take a shower in the communal shower area . I then waited and read for about 30 until it was time to take a taxi to the Train Station . The train station was n't too confusing , but I was glad that I had purchased my ticket ahead of time through a travel agency because no one at the train station seemed to speak English . I waited in the waiting room and boarded my sleeper train to Hue . I 'll try to get to write about my Hue adventures tomorrow in Hoi An . Right now I am sitting at Huenino hotel , having left my new British girlfriend at the backpackers hostel ( for them to go out partying ) , about ready to crash in my lovely little room . I get up tomorrow at 6 am to catch the bus at 7:30 . More in Hoi An ! Wish me luck ! Share Comments 1 I know nothing about any Hanoi Water Puppet Show . I I d go to Saigon once . And Phu Quoc . Austin Aug 29 , 2012 1:22 Pm 2 Austin , that 's a typo . She meant Dan Ridlon - he 's the one who gave me a firm " pass " on the water puppets . Glad you 're safe and sound , Elizabeth , even if your bag is a part casualty . I just arrived in Vang Vieng - will type more later . For now , just stoked you found some travel friends , rode a motorbike like you 've been wanting to , and are on your way to ruins galore . Good luck in Hoi An ! ! jared Aug 29 , 2012 6:46 Pm 3 Sorry Austin I guess it was Dan . Water puppets were my cup of tea but I could see how people ( like Dan ) would n't like them . Jared : Miss you . Hoi An is so beautiful and romantic at night ! I 'm staying at the hotel the Quiet American was shot it . Wish I could share this with you but I 'm so thrilled you are having a great time in laos !
3  Time is of the essence and I 've got deadlines to meet with work . My back injury which decided to unleash it 's fury on me in Snowdonia last week has n't helped as it 's kept me bound to my bed for a few days and consequently I 've struggled to even sit at my desk for more than an hour or two endeavouring to complete some projects . Even so , come last Thursday I felt about 80 % fit and decided to chance my recovery and head out to the Lake District National Park . I needed to capture a selection of photos for a certain manufacturer 's kit and so I figured my pack weight would n't be as heavy as normal ( having he d the video gear at home ) while Jake Lunniss had kindly volunteered to act as a slave model for my shoot along with offering to lug my pack around should I need the help . As most of you are aware the Uk has been under a deluge of rain for the past week and the forecasts for the Lake District were less than ideal . Ever the optimist I planned to head to Great Langdale anyway in the hope I 'd get at least an hour of decent weather over a 4 day period . Reaching this fantastic valley is easy enough , there are campsites aplenty , pubs are within easy reach and if I were to provoke or worsen my injury I guessed I would n't be too far away from civilisation if I needed tending too . Arriving in the Langdale Valley last Thursday afternoon , I was delighted to see the skies ablaze with sunshine and little cloud . I figured my luck was in , but I was not meeting Jake until the following morning and on this day I was taking it gently and pitching my tent on a campsite near Chapel Stile and visiting a couple of the local pubs . Baysbrown Campsite proved to be an excellent place to spend the night . 5 per person , nice facilities and a helluva view from the main field down the valley to the iconic Langdale Pikes . I he d up , got my kit sorted and with a hoof and a poof I got comfortable lying on my mattress outside the tent soaking up the scenery and the warm sun beaming down from the sky . Happy days ! However , some time later my early doors visit to the land of nod was suddenly interrupted by a horrendous downpour ! Frantically , rolling off my bed and stumbling into the tent for shelter I lounged inside for an hour or so as the rain came and went with the odd flash of lightning for good measure . Good old British weather , eh ? Nevertheless , eventually I got kitted out in waterproofs and paid the local pubs a visit . Come the following morning the weather had n't improved a great deal at all . The heavens above continued to dump half the Irish Sea onto Cumbria but I packed up Ok and headed off to the Britannia Inn , in Elterwater to meet Jake . By the time we both left this delightful Lakeland Inn , the rain had all but disappeared but was replaced with a strengthening wind in the valleys and up on the tops . It was nothing major though . Forecasts we 'd seen indicated gale force winds with a chance of storm force by the evening . But we only encountered the odd gust to nudge us out of stride now and again at the very most . And as the sun sank somewhere behind the murk we only had light drizzle to contend with . Just goes to show the weather forecasts are not always reliable . Aye , they 're a guide but if you 'd have looked at them the previous day you 'd have surmised myself and Jake would be at the centre of a proper shitstorm . Instead we woke to blue skies and sunshine ! Anyway , I 'm not too keen on writing and so I 'll leave you with a selection of pics as I think they 'll make for a much more enjoyable way to share my trip in and around the Langdale Valley . Besides , at the minute I 'm trying not to reach for my lower legs and scratch them until they bleed . I inadvertently brought home some stowaways from my Lakeland trip bloody ticks ! I did n't know they were there until this very morning and even then I was struggling to remove them because my damn tick tweezers are broken ( after a desperate attempt to remove a cork from a wine bottle one evening at camp some months ago ) . Thankfully , my local Gp has helped me out with regards to the little black blighters.. . . Nb : Most of the following pictures were captured on an advanced compact camera . Some were taken by a Dslr . The majority of my Dslr photo 's feature the products I was working on and am unable to show them at this moment in time . The view from my tent on Baysbrown Campsite near Chapel Stile as good a view as you 're going to get ! After a thunderstorm I headed off to Chapel Stile to visit some pubs . Chapel Stile in Great Langdale . I was making my way to another pub at first but did pay this village 's local on the way back Wainwright 's Inn . Bit of a I ve in truth . Staff were lovely but it 's no traditional Lakeland pub . Myself and Jake Lunnis enjoying a pint in the Britannia Inn , Elterwater on Friday lunchtime . It was raining cats and dogs outside so it would 've been rude not to linger in this fine pub for a while . Jake makes his way along the flanks of Lingmoor Fell after the rain had cleared . Looking to the Coniston range from the sides of Lingmoor Fell as we made our way to camp . The weather may not have been ideal but at least we had nice views to enjoy this one being of Little Langdale . And yes , that 's an umbrella ! Jake 's converted me to them for backpacking . They have their uses . The view over towards Windermere began to open up as we climbed higher up Lingmoor Fell . Jake takes some time out from the strong winds we were encountering as we he d this wee hills summit . Upon reaching our camp for the night , Jake decides to enjoy a early evening nap in a Gram Counter Gear Litehouse Solo I had loaned to him . Jake looking rather smug under his umbrella in the drizzle as we whiled away the time enjoying some brandy and sherry . As you can see here , I 'm bewildered to the joys of using an umbrella whilst backpacking ! I woke at 4.30am to note the weather had dramatically improved for the better ! The view from camp over to Swirl How and Wetherlam . Fabulous ! From the same spot as the previous picture , a view of ( left to right ) Pike O Blisco , Crinkle Crags and Bowfell . Jake 's still asleep as I prepare for the day 's work ahead . Mr Macho ! ! One of the pictures from my shoot featuring Jake as a model . We spent around 90mins taking photos before moving on elsewhere for the day . The cloud came back but no rain or wind . Which was ideal for midges unfortunately ! The picturesque Lingmoor Tarn from higher up the fell . I wanted to do a shoot there as well , but the weather as you can see made me decide to leave it for another day . Jake descends with brolly in hand ( after a few spots of rain ) . The sun out again , midges in our faces , we made our way to Blea Tarn and then onwards to the Old Dungeon Ghyll pub . Well known Lakeland photographer Stewart Smith hooked up with us at the Old Dungeon Ghyll for a couple of pints . We 'd been chatting on Twitter and he happened to have been out for a wander that day on the langdale pikes .
3  Visiting Beijing I spent the last half of September travelling around China with the rest of my family from Australia . My sister and I flew in directly from London to arrive , rather weary - eyed to a waking Beijing city . We had a good day walking around before the rest of the family flew in , so we travelled by foot . Beijing is one of the bigger , modern cities but filled with lots of tradition . The streets were wide , clean and not at all like the streets of India that I had imagined . Of course one of the things one must eat when in China is the Beijing ( peking ) duck . I ended up eating this twice on the trip , one at Da Dong Roast Duck , a rather upscale , and busy restaurant even when we arrived for a late lunch at 2pm . he s are beautifully presented and the duck prepared table - side . The other restaurant , apparently more famous but definitely on the group - tour trail was Quanjude . Both ducks were fresh , nice skin but I 've still decided it 's not my most favourite Chinese dish . We visited a lot of different things in Beijing including a number of tourist temples ( such as this Confucius shrine below ) , a number parts , and of course some of the bigger sights . Such as the bustling Forbidden City where we walked through courtyard and courtyard amazed at the sheer number of spaces and the wonderful stories behind each of the different parts . The Forbidden City sits on the opposite side of the street from the Tiananmen Square ( where the events of the past were carefully stepped around ) . Both were amazing places to see . I 'm also really pleased that my sister organised it for the two weeks before the Chinese national holiday where , pretty much the entire country , moves around on their feet . Just compare the space above to the pictures in this article . We also visited the Temple of Heaven which was just as majestic as all the other parts . And we he d one of the evenings we had there with a visit to see some Shaolin Monks and the kung fu show . It was very similar to one of the acts that I 'd seen here in London but it 's still very I ve to see the skills and training they have . We took a day trip out to the Great Wall of China as well . The day turned out perfect - a little cool , very sunny with very clear skies and great visibility . There are apparently many different parts of the wall one can visit and we went to one that was challenging with the parents , but still very well kept with lots of places to stop and rest as well as places that were n't too steep or old . Beijing is also home to the Summer Palace ( pictured below ) that is a majestic ground including a lake with many boats and the world 's longest terrace for the Empress Dowanger to walk down and enjoy the view . Our visit to Beijing he d up with a visit to a Hutong , a family visit which was nice to see how local 's lived traditionally and a quick trip to the Olympic Park where I was surprised still had lots of activity going . Beijing gave us the flavour of the traditional side of China steeped in history and lots of I ve structures made a long time ago . It also gave us a taste of how modern China is developing with lots of new buildings , huge constructs and I ve buildings .
3  But why should we care , here in New Zealand , an ocean away from the United States ? Here 's why . We should care because the anti - women rhetoric coming from conservatives in the Us travels down here swiftly . Rape culture is I ve and flourishing in New Zealand , and concepts like " legitimate rape " and " can n't get pregnant from rape " and " some girls rape easy " and " god meant for you to be raped " play into it , and sustain it . I am so very glad that voters in the United States rejected these men who endorsed rape . It 's a push back , a small step towards dismantling the I ve of hatred and contempt for women . Nz Truth is due to publish its first edition under its new editor , Cameron Slater , tomorrow . ( for my friends and readers in Nz , " truth " is exactly the kind of newspaper you would expect with a name like that . ) Being a social media type , Slater has set up a Facebook page for Truth . And Truth Nz has a friend ! Truth 's Facebook page , with one friend . Screen capture taken at 9pm on Wednesday 7 November . This friend . Dpf on Truth . " 1 Friend likes Truth " And really , all this shows is that just one of my friends likes Truth.. . . By way of disclosure , Dpf is indeed my friend , on - line and in real life , and has been ever since we were students at the University of Otago together . I always enjoy seeing him , even if our political views are , well , somewhat opposed . Social media have broken down the distance between scholars and the larger world , enabling lay people to become I ve participants in the construction of knowledge , through offering ideas and data , recounting experience , and engaging critically with academic research . Academics no longer operate from the safety of ivory towers : they are able to engage with a much wider audience , in a conversation rather than a lecture , through the use of Twitter , Tumblr , blogs , discussion forums , etc . In this blog , we explore the use of social media in academic dissemination and collaboration . These Web 2.0 tools have broadened academic spaces , enabling the participation of different voices , and addressing the academy 's commitment to social justice . Take a look and tell us what you think ! We 'll be adding to the blog in the next few days , with links to blogs and Tumblrs and other social media sites that we think exemplify sociable scholarship . Over summer we will turn it all into an academic article . ******************************** Attending the symposium itself was great fun . My university is spread out over three cities , and many of my colleagues are people I know only through e - mail and telephone and sometimes video link . It was great fun to meet some of them , especially the woman with fabulous shoes who reads this blog , and comments at another site I frequent . How lovely to find that we are colleagues . Not enough to attract more than a handful of trick - or - treaters , of whom the most enchanting perhaps the small boy with some sort of head gear that gave the appearance of a knife sticking out of his eye . Women in Australia , and all throughout the world have been chortling with glee today , delighting in every word of Julia Gillard 's truly wonderful speech calling Tony Abbott out on his appalling misogyny . For nearly three years now , Abbott has used the most sexist epithets against Gillard , and against women . He has tolerated the use of words such as bitch , witch , " that woman " , allowed his supporters to use vile language against her , told Australian women that they ought to get back to doing the ironing , that they just do n't have what it takes to be a leader . Gillard has simply taken it all . She has had to . We know what happens to women who dare to fight back . They are simply subjected to a further round of abuse , derided as shrill harridans who can n't take a joke . Abuse , followed by dismissal . She simply could not afford to fight back . She had to ( pretend to ) ignore it all . How demoralising that has been all of us . When Gillard took power , my daughter and her friends raced around the oval ( playground ) at their school , thrilled that a woman had become prime minister . It was a tremendous moment of liberation for them . They could aspire to anything ! And then they watched . And I he d and other women watched , as Julia Gillard was attacked for the sin of being a woman . Each time my daughters watched , and each time I watched , and each time women in Australia watched , we learned the lesson that to be a woman in a public role is to invite abuse , for the crime of being a woman in public . Finally , Gillard hit back . Hard . In a forum where her chief tormentor was forced to sit and listen . Just for once , a woman could tell a man exactly what she thought of his despicable beahviour , and he could n't simply walk away . At last , he was being held to account for his misogyny . Did n't he hate it ? It gets so wearying , day in day out , watching and listening to women in power being derided simply for being . So often we just shut the rhetoric out , try to let it not get to us . But it is so very , very tiring . And this is why women everywhere are cheering for Gillard . Just for once , a woman has had a chance to tell it like it really is , and the bloke has had to sit and listen . And be held responsible for the hate he has been spewing . Today has been a good day . Should you not have he d the speech yet , make yourself a cup of coffee , or pour yourself a glass of wine , and take 15 minutes to enjoy it .
3  Our travels today took us to Nimbin , a town made famous in the 60's and 70's where the hippies moved to . It still has a lot of I ve lifestylers there selling pottery and organic food etc . , with long haired weirdo 's walking around in bare feet trying to look cool ! The hemp cafe stunk of weed when we walked past ! Pete was even asked if he would like to buy a joint ! Next stop was a Sunday market selling much of the same thing . Best part of the day was travelling through some beautiful countryside which looked so green after the last two rainy days . The town of Lismore was our stop yesterday . A quiet place but with plenty of shops , airport and a shopping mall . Bought a new Navman Gps as we were unable to update our old one . Still the same old voice but she is now a lot smarter and has not instructed us to go in the wrong direction once today . We also purchased a wireless tyre pressure monitor unit to automatically check all the 6 wheels on the Rv whilst travelling on the road . We have had a couple of faulty valves recently causing the tyres to leak air so this little device ( with the not so little price tag I may add ) will hopefully alert us to any problems in the future . Third acquirement was a Cb radio and aerial so that when those big road trains are heading towards us then we will know way before we see them ! Also if we do break down then hopefully we will be able to contact someone . Last week an experienced park ranger died in the outbacks when he got bogged . He strangely enough decided to walk out but did not make it ! Off tramping in a couple of National parks tomorrow as the weather is now hot and sunny once more . Bad start to the day as we had a flat tyre ! Fortunately we were camped in a little one horse town that at least had a garage so were able to get some help . The instructions to take off the spare wheel located under the Rv were incorrect so Pete spent a frustrating amount of wasted time before the mechanic arrived . We are now confident that should it happen again it hopefully will not be too much of a headache . It could have been a lot worse as it could have happened where we are tonight which is in the middle of a national park and a long way from a garage so all turned out well in the end . The bird life is amazing here as they are used to campers feeding them tit bits and even pinch food if they can get away with it . There are lots of Kookaburras and bright red crimson parrots . Tomorrow we are going to climb Bald Rock , Australia 's biggest granite monolith ! Sounds I ve but it is only a 2 hour return walk ! Well the walk was amazing and the granite boulders on top of the rock seemed to be so precariously balanced on the edge like huge marbles waiting to be rolled ! Now , currently in Armidale , a really interesting town with I ve old buildings and even a university . We went on a 3 hour free trip on a small bus along with 12 others courtesy of the local council around the city which was very informative . The free nearyby campsite we are at , by a dam , is lovely and we have had enjoyed some great happy hours with the folks next door . Visited an amazing old 30 room homestead that was gifted to the National Trust in 1984 . No one in the family wanted to take over the mammoth task involved in the restoration and upkeep so now it is open to the public . The old lady , the last of the owner 's daughters did absolutely nothing to it from 1970 when it was left to her and all the furniture , carpet , wallpaper is the original stuff . The guided tour was so interesting and to top it off we enjoyed Devonshire tea ( with scones and jam and cream of course in the adjacent cafe ! Unfortunately our plan to attend the local rodeo has been put off due to the weather . We will , I am sure , come across another one in another town . Pete wants to see someone being chased by an angry bull or being bucked off a horse ! 4 August , 2012 Peter and Suzanne , being of the Baby Boomers generation , are now setting forth on the next travel phase of our lives . We met many years ago in Cape Town , South Africa , Suzanne from Oldham in England and Peter from Cambridge in New Zealand , on an overland expedition taking six months to get to London . A year later we then journeyed from London to Australia overland taking 10 months . We settled in Rotorua , New Zealand , had 3 beautiful kids who are now doing their own thing and it is now , excitingly , time for us to recommence where we left off . We have , with much trepidation o. . . full info Aboriginal settlers arrived on the continent from Southeast Asia about 40,000 years before the first Europeans began exploration in the 17th century . No formal territorial claims were made until 1770 , when Capt . James Cook Took Possession In The Name.   More Info
3  I do n't even know where I am anymore . Sometimes my location on this great planet of ours does n't fully register until that Google Maps pin drops on my precise whereabouts . " wow , " I think . I used to be there , and now [ . . . ] For the past two weeks , this one particular quote has been repeating itself in my head , imploring itself to be pondered . Things are a bit sideways at the moment and I 'm a long way from home . I would n't necessarily say [ . . . ] As I write this article , I 'm sitting in the room I grew up in . I spent the first fourteen years of my life in this rickety old house before I shipped myself off to boarding school . If history proves anything , [ . . . ] A couple weeks ago I he d out to you , asking for help . My family and I were in need . I had been called home from New Zealand , after two years of traveling , because my sister was due for emergency surgery . [ . . . ] Dear family , friends , enemies , acquaintances , strangers , travelers , anyone , I write to you now from within dire circumstance . It is the evening of Wednesday the 18th , 2012 , and my sister is due in for major surgery in less than one week [ . . . ] One can only become jaded through experiencing life . But is n't that what traveling is about ? We seek , with a thirst for excitement and the rawness of new encounters . By this very concept , then , with travel must come disillusionment . Consider the [ . . . ] If you 're a part of the blogging community , you 've likely heard of My 7 Links ( or you 've probably heard of it , partaken , and long forgotten about it ) . Well , it 's like one of those chain letters from back in the days [ . . . ] I 've definitely been bitten by the travel bug . I can n't say for sure when the signs or symptoms occurred , but I do know that for most of my life I 've been struck by urges to see other places , sometimes distant [ . . . ] I had no idea what to expect when I started traveling 14 months ago . I knew I would be tried and tested and would return home as a more worldly and wise individual . I would learn things of the world , [ . . . ] Get Involved ! About the travelfreak ! In April 2010 , Jeremy left his cubicle job , family and friends in Boston in search of something more exhilarating on the other side of the world . What he found was extraordinary . So extraordinary , in fact , that he never went home . Years later , Jeremy is still on the road , with a new career and a direction in life . Read more about Jeremy ! Do n't Miss Out ! Sign up for the bi - weekly newsletter and never miss another post ! Plus get special tips and updates that you will n't find on the site !
3  To the untrained eye , the samples stored in baggies and plastic vials look like everyday run of the mill mud and rocks . Busy is what all of the scientists will be now that such specimens from the Larsen Ice Shelf in Antarctica have arrived.a lot of data can be obtained from mud alone , says a college senior . Funds were given by the National Science Foundation and so this college senior and other people selected from a university and college were able to explore Antarctica . For these schools , traveling for research is something ordinarily done . The group departed from Punta Arenas Chile , in early February aboard a research vessel . The Larsen Ice Shelf became their destination and it was uncharted territory on the east of the Antarctic Peninsula . The location has not yet been explored in the past . Measuring the ocean 's depth via sonar , they avoided rapid movements with the boat . Not only were water and sediment samples secured from the deck but the students and researchers also videotaped their exploits . It will take a long time for all samples to be analyzed . You will find that further information on travel to antarctica is on that site . The composition and water content of mud samples will be studied and this will result in information leading to its relation with global warming . Most of the students consider this to be an occasion of chance . Seeing things for what they really are , according to a student , is made possible by this . The path to graduate school for this student , a I ve of Scotland , involves global warming . Not minding spending the rest of her life on a ship is one more student who will be studying at the school of Oceanography in one university next year . Taking note of how intense the Southern Hemisphere weather conditions are , the group coped well . In Upstate New York , it is the same way.much more intense than the cold days was the sun that rose at 430 am and set at 930 pm . Looking out the window was not as easy when the sun was so bright . Limited civilization did not hinder the 24 seven scientific activities . For the students , shifts ran from midnight to noon or the other way around . There were bunk beds for the students to sleep on and a group lounge for them to watch movies in . There is no absence of rules in any way here.should something serious occur , a senior must be told . There was a senior student who needed to visit an emperor penguin after checking out a newly found surface volcano.such an encounter was enjoyable for this particular Dryden native . Everything must be experienced . She said one of the best days of her life was when members of the expedition went ashore on Vega Island . Incredible was the experience of being able to stand where only 10 people have ever stood before . To get a better understanding of trips to antarctica , visit their website . The duration of the trip is equal to I ve weeks of missed classes for the students . The hectic schedules they were given plus the environmental safety conditions in their vessel prevented them from getting all of their schoolwork done . There is a bigger challenge when the ship is constantly moving . Another issue pertains to the limited contact with home . The students and faculty grew close to one another because of the common living spaces and the lack of distractions . For one student any escape effort was futile . Closeness is a matter of being in a wild area with an extreme environment . They provided the customs officials with explanations for their unusual cargo through the documents prepared for the samples they decided to place inside coolers when they headed for the United States.for a student it was also necessary to bring 323 digital pictures and I ve rolls of film . It was the decision of one student who joined the previous exploration to simply experience the surroundings . Capturing a moment in pictures is not as amazing.it is enough to be aware of what is around you .
3  Chiang Mai to get the adrenaline pumpin. . . and some shopping ! ! From the hustle and bustle of Bangkok to the more relaxed atmosphere of North of Thailand today we headed to Chiang Mai . We arrived early evening and headed on down to the old city to see the temples . We caught the last night of the Yee Peng Lantern Festival in Chiang Mai where we he d a I ve parade of colourful floats and Thai dancing similar to the Dublin Paddy 's Day parade but bigger . It was fantastic as it commenced at 6 in the evening and continued onto past 12 o'clock that night . Later on that night we lit our own lantern and sent it into the night sky which is tradition at this festival with the belief that misfortune will float away with the lantern . We then he d all the fireworks in the sky before hitting the hay . Temple Trotting & Panda Watching : The following day we got a pickup truck taxi to bring us up to Doi Suthep the most famous temple in Chiang Mai which offers spectacular views of Chiang Mai after climbing the 309 steps to get to the temple . The temple itself is an amazing colour of gold and worth the trip . From there we headed back down the hill and stopped off at Chiang Mai zoo to visit the three pandas . After our day of sightseeing we hit the night market in Chiang Mai . Definitely well worth waiting from Bangkok as the variety and prices are much better . Shop til we drop : Day 6 of our adventure began with dropping our bag of smelly washing into the reception area where would pick it back up later that evening he d and ironed for only _3 each , Nice! ! ! That day we hopped onto the free shuttle from the D2 Hotel where we travelled to the Central Plaza shopping centre located near the airport . It had a good selection of shops ranging from he s to electrical and plenty of food . After an afternoon there and some money spent we headed on the last shuttle truck back into Chiang Mai . Tailor Made : Back out to the Central Plaza Shopping Centre to get my hair done and then we came back into town to get sized up for our suits . Head to toe measurements were taken and we await the he d product . Me Tarzan , You Jane : Today we headed into the jungle for a spot of zip lining . Our jungle flight included 34 ziplines , 15 platforms and 4 abseils on Thailand 's 5th highest mountain , Doi Lungka offering luscious rainforest views with the longest zip line 300 metres and greatest distance from the ground of 120 metres . Absolutely incredible views . Best holiday day out so far . Mad scary when you start out but after a few goes you get into it and it 's absolutely brilliant , would definitely do this again ! ! I 'm a tourist , get me outta here! ! : Early rise to begin our two day Hilltribe Eco Trek . After we rounded up the troops from all the hotels we made our way up North West out of Chiang Mai to the jungle . When we landed in the jungle at the bottom of the mountain our journey commenced . First we went on an elephant trek and then headed on our 2 hour trek up the mountain to the hill tribe camp . The heat was immense and it was tough but we made it . We did n't know whether to laugh or cry when we finally got to the top and the villagers had cars , mopeds and a road down the mountain . We soon forgot the tough trek when we settled into a well - deserved Chang beer . Our tour guide had a slogan for the night as he strummed on the guitar ' no woman I cry , No Chang beer I die '! It was funny hearing I m sing it in a Thai accent . After a much welcomed shower 7 of us out of our group went to explore the village and found a recession buster hut on the far side of the mountain . It was only half built so we figure the banks had just got to it before we arrived ! ! We chilled out to watch the fantastic view of the sunset across the jungle . A few more Changs followed later that night and off to our hut to bed then . In the jungle , the mighty jungle... . : Short trek downhill to the waterfall this morning for a refreshing dip . The large drop from the waterfall was amazing and we all enjoyed a cold shower from it ! After that we headed downstream to the white - water rafting which was great craic , especially when one of the lads fell out . We then hopped on a bamboo raft to finish our journey down stream . Our guide told us our bamboo raft was called the ' titanic Bamboo Raft ' and we soon found out why as we all thought it would be a great idea rather than sit down that we would all stand up on the raft and float downstream but our raft sank with all the weight ! haha . We then headed back into Chiang Mai and were welcomed back to our guesthouse room with all its comforts . Piece of Oz in Thailand : Today was a go slow day . We relaxed and got some lunch in a nearby caf where we ran into Lou Carpenter from Neighbours ! Ha We got a few sneaky pics of I m until he caught onto us pretending to take pics of each other eating our food when really we were catching a pic of I m in the background . heehee Eatin Dust : Atv Safari Tour today . Back to the jungle for quad biking ! Fun ! After a few minor incidents ending up with the quads and us in the ditch we soon got the swing of it and figured out how cool full throttle standing up on the quad tearing downhill really is ! ! Off road was crazy and needless to say we got a bit dirty . The best way to describe it is like being a kid again . We got mucked upto our eyeballs ( literally ) , had the best craic and did n't I ve a hoot ! it 's great ! ! love it ! !
3  Post navigation Southern Patagonia : Hiking Adventure At " the End of the World " the iconic Towers in Torres del Paine Parkthe # 1 attraction of Tdp Park in Chile Click on an image to expand in new window ; click on blue text to go to new page . Basic Information Who it is for : people who enjoy hiking and being in the world of nature ( without it being out - and - out wilderness ) When to go : October to April are the spring and summer months and the weather is usually at its most agreeable then ( no guarantees though! ) . January and February might be the best months of all . Where to go : While the northern section of Patagonia around Bariloche seems to be popular , the best hiking trails are in southern Patagonia in Parque Nacional Torres del Paine in Chile and Parque Los Glaciares across the border in Argentina . How to get there : If money is not an issue then a flight from Santiago de Chile to Punta Arenas or if you are in Argentina , from Buenos Aires to el Calafate ; if you have a lot of time , then an 1800 - km bus ride to the park from Santiago or 2100 km from Buenos Aires ! You could always combine a bus ride to Puerto Montt followed by the four - day Navimag ferry ride to Puerto Natales . Or you could visit Ushuaia ( the southernmost town in the world ) and then make your way back north by boat and bus to the two national parks . It is possible to do Fitz Roy using a room in the village of El Chalt n as your starting point each morning ; there are beds available in refugios all around Torres del Paine Park so with reservations you would not need to tent at all . Fantastico Sur owns and runs a number of the refugios . See here for some info . Read on if you 'd like more detail about what you 'll see and other useful information . Cerro Torre and Monte Fitz Roy behind El Chalten at the north end of Los Glaciares Park Patagonia the very word conjures up remoteness and he d wilderness . Often the word is followed by the dramatic phrase " the end of the world " . Like the Yukon at the other end of the Americas , it has attracted its share of people keen to make a new life for themselves and adventurers open to the unknown . With the advent of cheap air travel , backpackers and Gap - year travellers have also added Patagonia to their to - do lists . What used to be " the trip of a lifetime " has become a great way to spend this year 's three - week vacation ! An advertisement celebrates Patagonia as " el fin del mundo " Patagonia makes up the southern part of two South American countriesargentina and Chileand he s over a thousand miles from Valdivia and the Rio Negro area to Cape Horn . Click here for a map to refresh your elementary school geography ! Running down the length of Patagonia is the southern end of the Andes , with cordilleras no longer as imposing as those in Ecuador or Peru or northern Chile and Argentina ( where you find Acancogua , the highest point in South America at 6800 + m)...but still an I ve scene as rock he s up into sky in the form of iconic towers . an overcast day view of Cerro Torre in Parque Los Glaciares The area of Patagonia that I chose to focus on for my three - week adventure was the southernmost section . My reason was simplethis area contains the two most dramatic hiking trails in the entire region . In particular , I wanted to hike the circuit around the Cordillera Paine in Parque Nacional Torres del Paine ( tdp ) on the Chilean side and then go over to Argentina and spend a week hiking in the shadows of Fitz Roy in Parque Nacional Los Glaciares . The following map lays it out nicely The first decision had to do with how to get there . In my case , it was pretty easy . Since the point of my trip was hiking , I wanted to bypass the big cities of Santiago de Chile or Buenos Aires . The most straight - forward way was thisa direct flight from Toronto ( the Yyz of that Rush song ! ) to Santiago de Chile and then , after a three - hour wait , a flight to Punta Arenas . From there I would bus up to Puerto Natales , the real gateway town to Parque Torres del Paine and eventually cross the border by bus into Argentina and on to the north end of Parque Los Glaciares and the tourist village named El Chalt n after passing through El Calafate . Here are the four villages of the region Many of the travellers I met had included southern Patagonian in their itinerary but hiking was clearly not a primary reason for their travels ; rather , they were on their way to Ushuaia from Buenos Aires and were stopping on the way . Their plans included a day or two in Tdp and then a couple of days in El Chalt n walking a trail or two to Fitz Roy . Without tents or more rugged boots or trekking poles or rain pants , they wanted to see what they could . Tdp 's refugios help make that possible , as do the hostals of El Chalt n . I will also admit to not understanding why some were there at allthey were looking in the wrong place for a party vibe you associate with he s and cities ! Check out this recent thread in Lonely Planet 's Thorntree Forum for a sample of this . Getting To The Trailhead : I landed in Punta Arenas at 7 p.m . , having left Toronto just before midnight the day before . With my castellano ( a term often used in South America to refer to the Spanish language ) definitely a work in progress , I was able to find out about and get a seat on the bus heading to Puerto Natales from downtown Punta Arenas and stoppiing at the airport . ( click here for a map of the route . ) stray dog napping outside the airport at Punta Arenas The bus pulled into the airport 's bus platform at about 7:30 and a few of us got on . Left behind was this dog , who would be the first of many stray dogs I would see in the four towns of southern Patagonia that I would visit . ( spoiler alerti am a 100 % softie when it comes to dogs and am typically North American in my reaction to the way that they are treated in other societies . Perhaps in a separate post I 'll share a few of the many dog and cat pix I took! ) . I would be spending four days in Punta Arenas at the end of my trip but for now I contented myself with gazing at the Straits of Magellan as our bus headed up to Puerto Natales and taking bad pix like this one ! heading for Puerto Natales with the Straits of Magellan ahead In retrospect , I was pretty lucky to be able to catch the bus on such short notice ! If they are arriving late , it is more likely that travellers will have to go into Punta Arenas for the night and continue the journey in the morning . My destination at the end of the four - hour I ve to Puerto Natales was a room at the Erratic Rock which I had pre - arranged via internet a couple of weeks previously . It proved to be a great place to stay and to get information on all aspects of hiking Tdp . I 'd highly recommend it if you are a budget traveller . So do these people whose reviews you can read at trip advisor.ca . the front of the hostal known as The Erratic Rock in Puerto Natales Amazingly enough , I sat on that bench outside the hostal and facetimed ( the Apple version of Skyping ) with my wife 11,000 kilometers away and the connection was perfectly cleardefinitely a sign of how the world has gotten even smaller with the advent of the internet . During the next three weeks I would find free wifi in all the places I stayed atno matter what the price of the room . Wifi was also available in a number of the restaurants . A half - day into the trip and what was already clear was that the " patagoniathe end of the world " stuff was a great line for travel brochures ( or the titles of blog posts ! ) to promote an exotic destinationbut was essentially a metaphor that comes from the world of the 1850?s and not of today . the church and the central square of Puerto Natalesthe view from El Living 's front door The first part of my day in Puerto Natales , a town of some 20,000 on the Channel of Last Hope , was spent exploring the small downtown area . After a lunch at a very good vegetarian restaurantel Livingi returned to the Erratic Rock having made up my mind to move on that very afternoon . The weather in Puerto Natales was overcast with occasional showers and the forecast for Torres del Paine Park for the next week was more of the same . Checking the weather forecast for Fitz Roy I noticed six days in a row of sun icons on the weather app . That decided it right theredo Fitz Roy first and then come back and do the Tdp Cirucit when it had stopped raining . Little did I know.. . . the bus to El Calafate , Argentina We left Puerto Natales around 4:30 and headed for the border . It took about 45 minutes for everyone on the bus to get cleared by the various officials and baggage checkers . the border between Chile and Argentinasome paperwork and baggage checking required ! We eventually got to El Calafate at about 11:15 p.m . I had booked a room in a nearby hostel while at the Erratic Rock so all I had to do was get there to put his day of rain and bus travel to rest . The cost$40 . for a clean and quiet room with breakfast and free wifi included . El Calafate hostelmy home for all of seven hours ! I had arrived at 11:30 ; by 6:30 a.m . I was leaving , headed back to the bus station and the first bus of the day to the sunshine of Fitz Roy and El Chalt n . Here is the scene that greeted me at the bus station an empty El Calafate bus station at 6:45 on a Saturday morning The 210 km . bus ride took about two and a half hours I sat in the front seat of the almost empty bus and had a great view of the passing scenery , mostly desolate and tree - less scrubland . But then around 8:45 I was finally reminded of the actual purpose of my visit . We were moving west towards this at 100 km an hour ! the view from the bus as we sped towards Monte Fitz Roy By the way - about that Fitz Roy weather forecast with a solid week of sunshine icons ? It turns out that I had made a rather silly mistake . Click here to see the confusion ! Pretty dumb , eh ! It would turn out that the rain I had tried to escape in Puerto Natales by hiking Monte Fitz Roy first would be up there too . The next post will show you the best of what El Chalt n and Monte Fitz Roy have to offer during four overcast and often rainy days . The second post dealing with my Patagonia visit can be found here read all about El Chalten and Monte Fitz Roy and the hiking possibilities in what the argentines bill as their trekking capital .
3  Cuba So I managed to get the flight out for 3.30pm and it turns out the crazy high fiving , Mexican , Armador , is coming along . So we packed our shit and walked to the bus station to catch a bus to the airport . Armador is pretty funny but also a bit strange . He owns a sail boat in Tulum which he has docked in cancun but has to take back to Tulum because there is apparently a hurricane coming ! Anyway , he met like a thousand people at cancun airport and got us a ride to trinidad if we wanted . I decided on the plane I was going to stay in Havana after he spilt his 3rd drink on himself ! Going through immigration was fairly easy but I got drilled about my travel insurance for some reason but she gave up and unlocked the doors to Cuba for me anyway ! I saw Armador with my bag near some military guys and was a bit worried but he had picked my bag up at the X - ray because I forgot it . He high fived me for the 80th time and then said " i 'll meet you outside . " I waited for about 40 minutes and so did the guy who was taking I m to Trinidad but he had disappeared . So I changed some money at the airport because cuban pesos is a closed currency . They do n't take kindly to changing Us dollars for obvious reasons ! I jumped a cab by myself . I should have asked around at the airport because the 4 Aussies staying in my room where on my plane......doh ! I got a taxi to rolandos hostel which the Aussies in cancun recommended . Very basic but rolando is awesome . His whole family run the hostel in a house in the centre of Havana . It really is like stepping back in time here . On the I ve in the old American cars are everywhere and they are gorgeous . You see an entire extended family driving around in them because they fit about 9 people and apparently by law you must pick up hitchhikers ! I went for a walk at about 8pm through the very dark street with the I m to walk on the same road until I hit the water so I did n't get lost . Along the way a young Cuban took a liking to me and walked with me the whole way . Interesting conversation as he did n't speak a word of English and me just a little Spanish ! I he d I m as nicely as I could after he asked to come back to my casa . I literally could n't find where the action was so I decided to head back to the hostel . 2 hours later and a little lost , I made it . I feel very strange in the stomach....... . . Day 2 I still have n't eaten since yesterday morning and I do n't plan to for a while as I believe I have ' montezumas revenge '! After a very restless nights sleep in the dorm with 4 other really nice Aussies I felt like crapola in the morning . The aircon was too cold but the room was too hot without it so we were all taking turns switching it on and off ! Graphic content warning ! Put it this way , at 8.30 this morning I Did Not make it to the bathroom . Yep I shat my pants about 2 meters from the door ! Oh my god , lucky it 's laundry day ! I 'm back in bed now along with one of the Aussie boys who 's got a flu of some kind . They all have actually . So I 'm missing out on seeing Havana during the day , but right now I 'm not risking a public pant shitting . Please work drugs . I 've now been in bed for almost 36hrs sick as a dog . Every muscle and bone in my body aches . I 'm too scared to move . This is definitely not the place I wanted to get sick because I literally only have a week here . I do n't know if I can even risk leaving the hostel today to get to Trinidad . I could n't do brekky but the crew in my room agree we have to get out of this place , it 's depressing ! We all paid up and caught the smallest cab in the universe for 5 people to the bus station . We were all keen to hire a big old Chevy for the 4 hour trip to Trinidad and our wish was granted . For $ 25 each we got into a beautiful big red Chevy with our driver Maury . Well half way there it started pissing down and those old cars also have old windscreen wipers . There was a lot of stopping by the side of the road until we had any visibility ! We kept seeing road signs to Australia , there is actually a place in Cuba called central Australia ! 5 and a half hours later we I ve in Trinidad . The cabbie dropped the 4 Aussies off at his mates place but I decided to head closer to the centro . Along the way we picked up this lovely old lady who said I could stay at her casa . I 'm lashing out at $ 25 a night for a whole room to myself with aircon and a tv ( spanish only ) . I just need a good nights rest and a bathroom to myself to literally get my shit together ! The family are so sweet . My plan is to head to the beach tomorrow , the one that is blue and transparent.........i just want to swim ! I went for a quick walk to the centre and it 's tiny but I found casa de musica and listened to some awesome Cuban music before fighting my way back to my room via the treacherous cobblestone streets streaming with water from the downpour . It 's a very cute , very Cuban little town . It even smells like cigars ! I 'm going to sleep watching what I believe is ' crime stoppers Cuba '! Day 3 Had a good sleep and woke up to breakfast homemade by Boris , the owner of the house I m staying in . This is the second time I 've tasted Cuban cheese and it is terrible ! It smells and tastes like old socks . This coming from someone who will eat any cheese put in front of her . The coffee is the best I 've tasted so far . I walked to the taxi area and got a cab to take me to playa ancon for $ 5 and it was worth it . My first I m in the Caribbean . White sand , clear water... . . Perfecto ! I swam for 2 hours and made a deal with the cabbie in the small Russian taxi to pick me up at 1pm . I met a lady in the water called belky , she gave me a guava and a banana to eat which was nice . I got back to town and went in search of the bus station . This place is a maze of cobblestones but I found it not too far from my casa . The lady said there are 2 buses to Santa Clara tomorrow at 7am and 3pm so I 'll see what time I 'll wake up . I can n't seem to ever find any food in Cuba , it is really like stepping back 50 years . I 've lived off icecream he s and water lately so it 's a good weight loss plan in addition to montezumas revenge ! I would I ve my right arm for a vegemite sandwich right now ! Cubans have been very friendly so far contrary to what I was told by the 4 Aussies in cancun . This makes me think that maybe they were rude to the Cubans ? ? It is beyond hot here , like being bitch slapped by the sun itself . I might eat dinner with the family tonight , test the local fare . What 's on offer tourist wise is cuban number plates , crochet clothing , things made out of soda cans and anything they can put Che Guevara 's face on ! I met an old local sitting in the square trying to light his cigar . His name was Raphael and he was a farmer , so I gave I m my lighter and he was pretty happy . I ran into I m a bit later and he showed it to me again ! I 've gone for another walk and found a beautiful little restaurant and I 've ordered the lamb . Not sure if I 've even seen a lamb , so lamb may mean goat and goat may mean lizard but it 's a specialty and I have n't eaten properly for days ! Bonus , you can smoke wherever the hell you want in this country . Ironically , their cigarettes are called ' hollywood '......wtf?? The waiter just brought me the starter of tuna fish and I felt rude but I can n't eat that shit , not even when I 'm starvin marvin ! Warm bread rolls is very bueno though . Looking out the window and about 10 bus loads of tourists just he d down in what was a quiet little village . They sound European . The bread is so good , I 've just made myself a cucumber sanga and bagged it in a serviette for later ! I ended up giving said sandwich to a dog I felt sorry for up the road . The meal was enough for 3 people ! The shredded lamb was delicious and definitely salted ! Holy shit I 'm thirsty as a camel . I got back to my casa and the mama of the house is on the floor in front of the tv doing aerobics.......classic ! Making my way back towards Havana tomorrow with an overnight stop in Santa Clara . The owner of this house just hooked me up with a casa in Santa Clara so I just have to look for my name at the bus stop . While I was waiting I was showing her little boy movies of my dog on the iphone , well I forgot they do n't have anything like that technology here and he would not let it go and he d the movies over and over ! So cute . Day 4 So I 'm ready to go to the bus station at 6.10am and try to get out of the place I 'm staying only to find I 'm locked in . Good to know if there 's a fire that I would be trapped until sunrise ! I do n't have a ticket for the 7am so I 'm hoping it 's not packed and I have to hang around until 3pm . I 'm unlocked from the house and at the bus station in the pitch dark . Nice walk though , you can see every star in the sky from here and hear every rooster in town ! The ticket office is n't open yet so I 'll park my arse on the curb . Got on the bus and met a girl from Finland who loved a chat , she kept trying to make me eat her finnish flat bread ( reminded me of the shit the hobbits eat in lord of the rings ) but unfortunately I felt like I was going to hurl so I nodded off . 3 hours later I m in Santa Clara . The little taxi dude was outside the bus station with my name on a bit of paper spelt ' berlindar '! I quickly checked what time the bus to varadero leaves tomorrow and hooked it up with my cabbie that he get me back to the station at 7.15am tomorrow . . . . . . . sorted . Got to the casa and they are very friendly . I think I 've scored a room to myself again for $ 20 with aircon . It is again as hot as a bitch here , even the locals say its friggin hot . I decided to jump a bike taxi to the che Guevara memorial ( when in Rome.......as I now know what Santa Clara is famous for......che is buried here ) . The poor bastard peddling me around town in the blazing sun , I felt terrible . The Che museum and memorial is quiet nice , pretty small but full of great items that once belonged to Che including an array of weapons , clothes , diaries etc . I stood in front of were Che 's remains are now buried after they were recovered from a secret mass grave in Bolivia about 15 years ago . Fidel himself lit the eternal flame just near the head stone . A lot of history right there mofos ! No pics allowed , so I have no pics . I jumped back on the bike taxi and he took me to the Cuban cigar factory . I bought a Romeo y julieta and a montecristo for the tiny price of $ 10 . It smelled really good in there but I was a couple of hours too early for the factory tour so I bailed . The taxi bike man huffed and puffed me back to the park , i gave I m an extra $ 4 for his trouble . I 'm now in an italian restaurant because it 's all I could find that was packed ( which means high turnover of food to me ) . I 've ordered lasagne which should be interesting ! Well it 's pale and cold and salty as hell . They love a bit of salt in old Cuba town . I can n't eat it , it even has that Cuban stink cheese on it . Ide love to get into that kitchen ! It 's official , Cuba has the Worst food in the entire world . For some reason I thought it would be really interesting and tasty but sadly no . So I 'm off to varadero tomorrow . It appears to be a very commercialized beach town where alot of Canadians holiday . The reason I 'm going.......clear blue oceans ! The pictures are unbelievable , so I 'll spend the night there then back to Havana for my last night . I just tried to find food for dinner and it 's hard bloody work . I finally found a " supermarket " and I realize just how spoilt for choice we are in Australia . We can literally get anything we want at anytime . Here they have very very little choice at shops that are run military style . Cubans lead a very sheltered life , but they may like it that way . This country is hard work . Still amazing but hard work . It 's nothing like I imagined . The tv runs Che Guevara doco 's ads every 15 minutes which is fine but they are kind of preaching to the converted when it comes to Cubans really . Day 5 At the bus station awaiting my ride to varadero and I 've noticed something . The men in santa clara wear perfume and the women wear aftershave ! No shit , I realized when the same cab driver came to pick me up..........wtf ? ? The other noticeable thing is the array of very different looking Cubans . Their skin colour comes in about 14 different shades . From very dark carribbean to very light almost white and everything in between . They are a good looking race that s for sure . They spray the luggage area of the buses with some black smoke from a machine that looks like a leaf blower . I guess for insects ? ? The sunrise was bright red so it 's going to be a scorcher , luckily I 'm headed to the beach ! 11am and I 've travelled through some dodgy towns that if I got stuck there I would n't know how the fark to get out . I found the Cuba I was looking for after lugging my backpack a couple of blocks from the bus station.........varadero is paradise : ) I thought I would try my luck at a semi swanky resort right in the beach , it is low season after all . Bang ! Got a room on the beach for $ 27 and it 's worth every penny . I dumped my shit and jumped straight in the ocean . Warm , crystal clear blue calm water as far as the eye can see and not many tourists . My faith in Cuba has been restored : ) I feel like I should have been here days ago . Half an hour in the water and a huge tropical rain storm swept through but honey badger do n't care , it 's perfect ! I took cover under a he d hut on the beach to wait it out and happened to glance to my left and what I saw is still burnt into my retina.........balls . Yep , a guy not 1 meter from me decided it was a good idea to get changed on the beach and I witnessed a giant saggy hairy ballsack right in my eyeballs!! ! ! Oh my farkin god , the full bent over Monty ! I booked my bus ticket back to Havana tomorrow at 11am , I have to get back for my flight on Saturday . Scored well here because I think this place is about $ 70 + a night in high season . So I 'm celebrating with a scotch and tukola ( cuban coca cola ) minus the ice and a club sandwich for $ 5.....bang ! The rain has stopped and the sun is back out so another dip in the ocean is calling . Ok so I 've spent a whole day here and it 's a ghost town . The low season may not be the only reason people are not here . There is a stench that I can only describe as rotting eggs thick in the air . I remember reading something in lonely planet about the area being rich in natural gas and it appears here there and everywhere . It also mentioned to stay in a certain part of the beach to avoid it . Clearly I 'm in the wrong part of the beach and should have taken note of that shit . It 's almost unbearable and I would bet on it being a health hazard , I actually feel dizzy . I gambled on a pizza down the road , you can n't fuck up a pizza right ? Wrong . The ' meat ' is grey and it does n't taste like pizza . I got it to takeaway which is a phrase they are unaware of here . He put it in a used plastic bag ! Needless to say I 'm glad I bought those water crackers earlier . After my pizza experience ( which i filed under bin ) I decided I needed a drink so I stopped at the wierd supermarcado and picked up a bottle of Havana club rum for the grand price of $ 4 . I dodged 48 skanky cats on the way back to the hotel , they are everywhere . Well the farkin twist top would n't twist so I had to hack at it with the sharpest thing I have which is nail clippers . 20 minutes later I earned that drink and the whole bottle because the lid will nt go back on ! Good rum though . Cuba , you will be the death of me . 4 drinks in and I 've never been so happy to be watching Canadian tv ! Judging from the ads , it is actually a place I would like to visit . I 've been told its a lot like Victoria in Australia . Maybe I 'll play that country a visit if I ever make it out of Cuba ! Those water crackers I mentioned were my dinner tonight after the pizza incident , well they promised salt . After the overload of salt in every meal I 've tried in this country , crackers that say they have salt.........do not . Wtf ? ? When you are far away from people you know you work out what you miss most . Mine is being in New York eating wings and drinking whiskey with my brother or having a laugh at something at the bar with mum and dad at their hostel in Nicaragua . I 've only been off the grid for a week and it hits home . Day 6 Last night I swear someone was trying to get into my room so I shoved a chair with my backpack on it against the door........sorted ! Woke to the lovely smell of gas and had my free brekky . I got lucky yesterday with the beautiful blue water because after the rains it 's not so clear anymore . I 'm an hour early for my bus to Havana so I 'm sitting in the stinking hot terminal watching river dance on tv , Wtf? ? ! Think I may just go back to rolandos for the night , at least then I know where I am . I just ran into a nice couple from London at the station and its so nice to hear English again ! They also mentioned that Cuba is not as great as they thought it would be . We are 2 hrs into the bus ride and have made a random pit stop at a pi a colada bar cranking the tunes on the side of the road in the middle of nowhere ! Made it back to Havana and on the way in I found the awesome part , veijo ! It 's beautiful . I dumped my shit off at rolandos again and started walking and found the most amazing parts of this city . It 's so I ve and ornate . I even found an entire open air plaza where they have street stalls with old books , photos , jewellery etc . unbelievable . This is what I missed being sick for 2 days here and only seeing a seedy bit in the dark ! I 'm about to jump on an open top bus to see the rest before it gets dark . The 1 and a half hour tour took 3 hours ! Interesting though as I saw parts of Havana I would n't have got to myself . Like the whole other ' resort ' world at the other end , it 's like a gated community . Not very authentic at all . I also saw a Cuban bride cruising around town on the back of a big old Chevy.....nice . Havana is all over the place living standard wise . Slums right next door to mansions . Downtown in some parts looks like a bomb just went off but it 's peppered with beautiful old buildings in various states of disrepair . I am currently sitting in the most picturesque outdoor restaurant in a square dwarfed by a huge cathedral and other gorgeous buildings . A Cuban band is playing . funnily enough they do n't put tomato paste on their pizza but they do on their burgers ! I 'm drinking a dinky di Cuban mojito and it is blow your mind strong ! The sunset tonight was unbelievable , bright red . The restaurant hawkers are everywhere but the funniest I saw was a little girl trying to show me the menu while she had her finger up her nose with not a care in the world ! ! Once again cats everywhere , hundreds of the farkers . There 's a guy sitting by himself next to me , looks harmless , has a Havana guide book in English , drinking straight rum . Should I , should n't I? ? ! Nope , he just jumped 6ft when a cat went near his bag ! I walked most of the way in a mojito haze and stopped off for some road dessert . I won churro bingo ! Yep a dirty big black hair right through the middle of one ! I jumped a bike taxi after bargaining I m down from $ 5 to $ 3 with some free churros , hee hee hee ! ! Day 7 Drama drama drama at the airport in Havana ! I just walk in the door and Armador ( the crazy Mexican ) comes running over to me almost in tears . He got robbed in Havana 2 nights ago and has been living on the street until he made his way to the airport today ! He said he was he d by some guys offering a place to stay which is pretty normal here . They then gave I m 2 shots of rum and he passed out . He woke up in a park with no bag , no wallet , no phone , just his passport and his ticket out of Cuba . He asked police for help but they just gave I m a light blanket and he literally slept under a tree one night and on the melecon the other . Poor bastard , but it gets worse . I asked I m where he disappeared at the airport when we arrived and he said after he saw me he was whisked away by security and x - rayed , searched , questioned and ' frisked ' by a doctor . They were claiming he was carrying drugs from Mexico ! He said they told I m they would find something but did n't of course , even after checking the seams of his pants . How horrific . As you can imagine he is pretty stressed and has tried to change his ticket but can n't get out until tomorrow . I bought I m some food and drink because he had n't eaten in 2 days . My flight has been delayed 2 and a half hours so I 'm hanging at the airport for about 5 hours . Cubana air have given us a voucher for food because of the 2 hour delay . Awesome , one last taste of the worlds worst food ! I 've checked in and paid my exit tax etc and now I know I have to leave Armador with some money or he will be stuck here until they decide to deport him ! I shelled out my last 140 Cuc and 100 pesos ( about $ 150 Us ) so he can pay his flight change , tax , eat and so he can get the bus in Mexico . We have agreed to meet at a bar called se or frogs in playa del Carmen tomorrow night at 5pm . I believe he will turn up because I saved his ass but time will tell . Either way I feel really sorry for I m and it 's not the end of the world if I do n't get the cash back . I have all his details anyway , phone number , email , Facebook etc . As I said , drama is Cuba , Cuba is drama ! I checked my passport and I did n't get a stamp to exit , I quickly checked on this and it 's fine . It may be better because apparently you have trouble getting back into the Us if you have been to Cuba anyway . So I did n't need to change any money back in the end because Cuc is useless anywhere else in the world , Armador has it all ! I met a lovely old couple from new Zealand and a sth African guy and his franadian girlfriend while we were waiting who also could n't wait to leave ! Glad it 's not just me . Two of them even work for trafalgar and contiki . They were listening , mouths agape , as I retold the Armador story . I say goodbye to Cuba and can say that this place has a bad energy and a lot of people have agreed with me . I 've seen some great parts and some terrible parts to this country . It 's like taking a ride in a time machine . With hand on heart I seriously doubt I will ever return . One last question for Cubana air . Why when the plane is almost empty would you sit complete strangers who are not travelling together right next to each other . Had to laugh because the English guy next to me totally agreed and now we have a row to ourselves . Actually i have almost the entire back end of the plane ! The flight is literally get up to altitude and then fly back down again , it 's that quick . Bye crazy Cuba and bye bye to the girl across the aisle taking selfies with her blackberry pouting in a souvenir Che Guevara beret . Stay tuned to see if Armador the crazy Mexican returns my money at our rendezvous at se or frogs tomorrow at 5pm !
3  Cradled on the east coast of the North Island , the coastal Bay of Plenty curves from the stunning Coromandel Peninsula to the serene East Cape . The beautiful ' bay ' shelters the thriving port city of Tauranga , endless white sand he s and several scenic islands , including the I ve steaming volcano of Whakaari ( white Island ) . I begin my journey around the Bay of Plenty in Whakatane , an I ve coastal town and the main base for trips to White Island . It 's early morning and with the sun 's first rays caressing the waters of the Whakatane River , it 's time to check out the ecotourism at White Island with Peejay Tours . The trip depends on fine weather and fortunately for me the sky is clear of rain clouds today . White Island is New Zealand 's only I ve marine volcano , lying 49 kilometres off the coast of Whakatane . Trained guides provide our group with a full safety briefing before the start of the guided tour within the inner crater of White Island . Safety gear is provided and includes a gas mask and hard hat . We 've been asked to bring covered , comfortable footwear and warm clothing . Within an hour and a half , we reach the island and get ready to explore the volcano 's crater . We spend six hours enjoying the sense of adventure as we discover an awesome landscape of hissing fumaroles , lava bombs , glittering yellow sulphur crystals , unusual rock formations and hot thermal streams . Our guide explains that when it rains the sulphate changes from yellow to white as far as the eye can see . We keep walking from the outer to inner crater . When we are close to the mass of sulphur , we have to wear masks due to the strong smell and possible gas emissions . After the tour , I continue to Tauranga , located in the centre of the region . I check in and have dinner at the Sebel Trinity Wharf Tauranga . The hotel sits on - and over - the water 's edge . It is within easy walking distance from the heart of Tauranga city and is a fantastic base from which to explore the Bay of Plenty . The rooms are modern and stylish , and guests must appreciate the heated floors on cool winter mornings . The next day , I depart for the Tauranga City Airport for a scenic helicopter flight over Mount Maunganui and Tauranga . The weather is overcast so the flight is slightly delayed . While waiting for the weather to clear I take a stroll through the Classic Flyers Museum , which houses classic aircraft , antique engines , aviation memorabilia and much more . Finally , I board a red Aerius helicopter , which is based at the Tauranga Airport . Aerius Helicopters offer a wide range of scenic flights and services . Today , my flight takes me along the coast of the Bay of Plenty . This is my first time in a helicopter , so I am fascinated as the aircraft zooms in on the coastline , getting closer and closer to the rocky outcrops , before soaring over the headland like an eagle . The pilot points out the beach and in the distance is White Island . I leave the airport at 1300 for my next activity , a cultural walk around Mount Maunganui . The Bay 's iconic ' mauao ' is affectionately called ' the Mount ' by local residents . My guide , Jack , meets me at the base of Mauao . Dressed in black shorts , black t - shirt and black wraparound sunglasses , he is solid , with arms bulging from years at the helm of a waka - a Maori canoe . Mauao stands 232 metres high . According to Maori history , back when the mountains lived and he d there were three mountains close to one another . The small mountain , which had no name , fell in love with the beautiful mountain named ' puwhenua '. His love was spurned as Puwhenua loved the third mountain , the chiefly ' otanewainuku '. In pain , the small mountain asked the fairy people , the ' patupaiarehe ', to help end his life by tossing I m into the great ocean . The fairy people dragged the mountain towards the ocean , but just as they were in sight of it the sun rose , turning the Patupaiarehe into rocks and leaving the mountain on the edge of the world . The mountain was named Mauao , which means ' caught by the new light of day '. As we walk , admiring the views of Tauranga harbour and ocean , Jack gives me an introduction to the rich history of this district . I can see people surfing , jogging and fishing . Sheep are here , of course , feeding on the green lush grass . As Jack explains Mauao 's journey , and many other stories about the area , hundreds of people pass , enjoying some weekend exercise before consuming to excess at Mount Maunganui 's many beachside caf s . The suburb of Mount Maunganui , revered as one of New Zealand 's most sought - after residential addresses , is typical of most seaside resorts . The restaurant area is congested with latte - lovers and those confident enough to tackle the big breakfast . It is a great place to end your trip to the Bay of Plenty as this is a tourist spot that should be savoured . After my guided walk on Mauao , I return to the Sebel hotel to change into warmer clothing for a moonlight glow - worm kayaking trip . I I ve at Mclaren Falls Park at 1600 to join the glow - worm tour . The guided excursion begins at dusk with snacks and drinks on the edge of Lake Mclaren where we don safety equipment and team up to man double kayaks . We then board the kayaks and cross Lake Mclaren . It 's great fun manoeuvring the kayaks in the I m light , trying to avoid dodgem - style collisions and steering off course without bumping into the banks in the narrow sections . However , once we reach the glow - worms , the hilarity turns to quiet awe at their brilliance and stillness , with lights so bright that they reflect in the surface of the lake . It 's been quite the journey . There 's so much to see and do in this sunny pocket of New Zealand , you 'll want to plan your time well , while still making it a relaxing and rejuvenating holiday . Hiking , walking , tramping ( as they call it in Nz ) has been around for as long as people have been . For millennia it was just a means to get from here to there , but sometime after the invention of colour Tv and I ve race walking , hiking evolved from a chore into a pleasure .
3  Uganda : The Pearl of Africa This was the first time in a while I needed to plan a trip , yet was n't exactly sure where to go . I had a couple of ideas in mind and had been asking around Zanzibar for opinions on where to renew my visa . Some said Zambia , some Rwanda , and some Kenya , anything that bordered Tanzania really . I also got a number of ideas from the G Adventures Ceo 's on the ground in East Africa . All in all , I decided to go on a bit of a I m and visit Uganda with three others I knew were going around the same time I was looking to go . Our crew got in touch with one another , sorted some last minute details ( flights ) , and decided to hit the road , bound for a new country and new adventures . We were three Americans and one Canadian ( me ) . My limited pre trip research presented an incredible history and a couple of interesting activity options . I was quickly getting stoked for the journey . Uganda , this could be good . The trip was 12 days in total and Uganda has so much to offer it was hard picking what to do and see with such a limited amount of time . So here we go , what 's first ? There were a couple of things we wanted to do right off the bat and figured it made the most sense to go northwest into the jungle and Murchison Falls National Park , home of the Chimpanzee . The national park is giant covering some 3,500 km square with the Blue Nile flowing a portion of its 6,650km directly through it . The park is home to not only the Chimp , but other amazing African wildlife found in their natural habitats . We spent three days and two nights in the northwest , staying one night in Masindi for access and the other within the park at a small hostel . The hostel offered the perfect opportunity for an evening safari on the Nile and an early morning a half day tracking session within the Chimpanzee sanctuary . Chimp tracking was high up there on my list of things to do and definitely did not disappoint . It was an amazing experience to visit and learn about our closest cousins , and to do it within their home as a guest , incredible . During the three days I saw many wildlife firsts including Hippos , Water Buffalo , African Elephants , Colobus Monkeys , Water Bok , Crocodiles , countless birds , and of course the I ve Chimpanzee . It was an amazing start to an awesome trip ! From the park we decided to go up into the far he s of northern Uganda and the town of Gulu . This was the centre strong hold of the brutally violent Lra ( lord 's Resistance Army ) during the late 90's and into the early 2000's . The Lra is something I unfortunately know little about , however I met a number of people with strong opinions as to what this organization stands for and how it is they go about their policies . The Lra is led by ( from what I understand ) somewhat of a fanatic , named Joseph Koney . He has been recruiting child soldiers and brutally terrorizing his fellow Ugandans , for the past decade , in the name of a revolution . It is said that the Lra would abduct children and force them to kill their families and friends , giving them no ties back to a normal life and ensuring their devotion to the cause through fear and helplessness . I have heard many stories of children and young men being forced to work in horrible conditions , to carry out atrocities on others , and in short , to kill or be killed , all in the name of the Lra . I do not really want to say more as I am not aware of all of the facts . Our trip to Gulu was solely to visit an Internally Displaced Persons Camp . There were a number of Idp Camps set up throughout northern Uganda during the war between the National Army and the Lra . A lot of the people living in these camps have fortunately been able to return to whatever is left of their original homes since the Lra was forced out of Uganda a few years ago . There are still a few pockets remaining and we were able to visit one camp with the help of an amazing local guide named Okello Emmanuel . Okello , who preferred Emmanuel , took us to a camp about 100km north of Gulu near the South Sudan border . The spot has turned into more of a village since the Lra was forced from the country . It honestly looked very much like a normal African farmlands village community . I think what gave away the history of the location was the ever present Ngo stations and vehicles . I have never seen so many Ngo 's situated in the same place . World Vision , the Un , Save the Children , Unicef , and many others of which I did not recognize . There were also a number of schools set up to help children lacking proper access to basic education , many of whom were affected by the war . We toured through the village and met a few people who had been living there since the troubles . I was introduced to a family supporting four orphan children plus their own two daughters and three sons . The orphan children were quite obviously he d and in a case of severe poverty . I can only hope that they are getting access to whatever programs the Ngo 's are working to implement . However , at the time of my visit , for this particular family unit , it did not seem to be the case . Old eyes , young shoulders . On a lighter note , from Gulu we decided to head back south towards the adventure capital of Uganda and the source of the Nile , a small town by the name of Jinja . This is considered the best White Water Rafting in Africa ( up there with the Zambezi ) and also is home to the only bungee tower in the country . I had never been bungee jumping before and figured this was the best time to do it . The four of us booked onto a full day rafting and only Emma and I followed this up with a super awesome bungee jump . More on that experience in a bit . The rafting on the Nile is world class and up there with my experiences rafting in Peru , Nepal , Canada , and Ecuador . On our full day trip we hit four I ve class I ve rapids followed by an awesome riverside lunch , followed by another set of four class I ve rapids . It was an amazing experience and we succeeded in flipping the boat once with no casualties , which was great . 1...2...3...bungee ! ! Okay , 1...2...3.....bungee ! ! What a rush ! ! If you have never been bungee jumping before , I highly suggest you do it . It was incredible . I was definitely a little nervous going into the jump and asked the bungee master to I ve me no wait time at the edge . This of course did n't happen . He had me shuffle to the edge then asked for me to pose for a picture . Urrrgg . I was the first to jump that afternoon and will n't lie , my heart was pounding , and it was a long way down . I really can n't stress enough how awesome of an experience it was . Flying through the air with no parachute , no hang glider , nobody there tandem beside you . The free fall was fantastic and as the cord began to stretch I realized that I was n't going to miss the water , I was going right in . Whoa , again . I hit the water in a I ve position and went in up to my waist . I then got hurtled out of the river by the rebound of the cord and flew another 100 feet back into the air . Arching my back I smiled to myself as the rebound came to that split second spot of complete weightlessness before gravity takes over and your body comes crashing back down to earth . This is adrenaline . This is life . From Jinja we decided to take a more chill approach to travel through Uganda and head east to the site of its most famous waterfall , Sipi Falls . The falls sit in high hills overlooking a beautiful fertile valley floor . The hills are also home to small local coffee plantations producing some of the best coffees the African continent has to offer . We were lucky enough to hike around the area visiting three individual waterfalls and have a guided tour through the process of coffee production from start to finish . It was a great relaxing couple of days and an amazing way to finish of the trip . The twelve day trip was everything and more that my initial research had me sub - consciously expecting . I try and never travel with expectations , but sometimes they are unavoidable ( like going to Machu Pichhu , you are at least expecting to see the whole scene ) , in the case with Uganda , I was expecting to have an awesome time rafting the Nile and everything else was up in the air really . Turns out I I d have an awesome time rafting the Nile , and Uganda ended up being so much more than I could ever have expected . From the safari in Murchison , to the heart wrenching visit north , to the bungee and adventure of Jinja , he d off perfectly by waterfalls and coffee . Add lots of beer , crippling laughs and good friends to the mix . Travel honestly never ceases to amaze me , and I love it . Going into a new destination with only a rough outline is definitely taking a risk , but well worth the experience in return . For those who travel , you know exactly what I mean . Meeting amazing life changing people and experiencing cultural integration at a grass roots level is something everyone needs to try at one point in their lives . Travel is the perfect fuel for creation and exploration , quite often presenting an experience that you will never forget . I say you take a trip and just go with the flow . Talk to people , interact with those around you , work with local tour companies , learn and open your mind . Find your way as you go . These are all things that I am continually practicing while on the road and if my future trips end up like my time in Uganda than I am off to a great start . I hope you have enjoyed reading this post . For more info on Uganda , check out the G Adventures Kenya & Uganda Gorilla Adventure , the Ultimate East Africa , and the Uganda and Gorillas Overland . Cheers and safe travels ! ! 2 Comments Great experience Greg ! passed through the long yet very interesting blog where you went in the national park , ( scary?? ) , and much interesting is that a lot of Ingos at the same place...may be because one of remotest countries of world..and the bunjee jumping , its so different than in Nepal...thanks for sharing the information. . . Leave A Response About the Looptail The Looptail was created by G Adventures as a place to share the stuff we love most about our planet . And we 're not just talking about travel . Music , food , photography - anything worth sharing , really - is what goes here . Usually , these are the sorts of things that inspired us to start travelling in the first place . &gt;&gt ;
3  Whilst Kilimanjaro can be done in 7 days , this mountain needs at least 3 weeks to make for a safe and well thought climb . There is lot 's of excitement to be endured. . . The famous white winds : temperatures of - 35 to - 40 C combined with icy winds , plus the odd electrical storm . Also with Argentina being a westernised country the kit is all self carried , unless you can afford some very I ve porters . An experience of a lifetime . Argentina , steak , more steak Mendoza with it 's wine and of course the wonderful people there . I had the greatest pleasure of being with some amazing folk to share some smiles , laughs , graons and create memories . In total the team raised 60,000 for The Anthony Nolan Trust , helping to save lives from Leukemaia . And for that matter we greatly appreciate all the support and donors from Twitter and around the world . Truly grateful . One thing it did do. . . No signal . . No Twitter for 3 weeks . . yes . . that was a challenge . 3 Responses to Mt Aconcagua - the Top of The Americas Wow a 3 - week climb ( and 3wks of no Twitter ) ! Congrats Paul , quite the accomplishment . How many from your team made it to the top ? I 've heard about the meat in Argentina . As a ' meatitarian ', it sounds heavenly ! Amazing you were able to raise so much money as well , looks like an incredible experience
3  Guide to Portofino Guide Contents Portofino attracts yachties and an increasing number of walkers , who come for the network of well - marked footpaths on the Portofino promontory to the west a wild , rocky place bristling with myrtle , gorse , hawthorn and holly . Explore the northern shore and the tiny bay of San Fruttuoso , where a Benedictine abbey was built in the eighth century . If you can n't face the two - hour walk from Portofino , the abbey is served by regular ferries . It 's stunningly beautiful , and over the years , the he s of the portico on the seaward side have become silted up , so that they are now all but buried by the beach . Run by Fondo per l 'ambiente Italiano the Italian version of the National Trust the complex was once the property of the Doria Pamphilj family of Genoa , seven of whom lie buried in a cosy Gothic vault . The abbey 's inwardness and composure is fascinating amid such a roar of nature . Share via Leave us a comment on this story Is October still nice in Portofino ? Pasinee . Limatibul 05 Jul 2012 I visited a bar in Portofino called Jolly or Jollie The manager was incredibly rude and arrogant . My visit to portofino was completely ruined by this person and was to have been a highlight of my 10 day trip to the italian Riviera . However Monterosso and Nervi were beautiful and I shall always remember my visit for that reason . Jolly Restaurant manager should be encouraged to change his manner . i have never been treated so poorly .
3  Trail Running - baden Powell Trail from Grouse Mtn to Deep Cove On Saturday , we decided to run the second half of the Kneeknacker route , primarily the Baden Powell trail from Grouse Mountain to Deep Cove . Overall , the trail is very well marked , and is a net downhill route , but there is a ton of elevation gain , rolling hills , and almost all of the trail is single track and technical . It is by no means an " easy " trail run . The sheer distance is around 25 kms , and will take the average trail runner anywhere from 4 to 5 hours . I 've tried to do a review of the route we did , for other trail runners to have a reference point . These are my own opinions , and I am a fairly avid trail runner . We met at Deep Cove in North Vancouver , and transferred post running stuff to 1 car , and took another car to Grouse Mountain in West Vancouver . There is free parking at Deep Cove , but depending on the time of day , and of course the weather , the parking lot and close - by streets cane be jam - packed . We arrived at 8:30 am and had no trouble parking in the main lot for Panorama Park . A group photo at the start did n't turn out quite as well as I would 've liked. . . Starting at Grouse you have 2 options , you can enter where the Grouse Grind starts , and take the Bcmc until it veers off onto the Baden Powell , or you can take the Powerline road until it joins the Baden Powell ( approx 2 km ) . We decided to to do the latter , because it was a Saturday morning , and the entrance lot at Grouse was crazy busy . We parked in the overflow gravel parking lot at the very end . If you are standing looking up at Grouse , the trail head is on your right , at the far end of the parking lot . Upon coming out of this trail , you need to follow the road up the hill , and to the right . You will find 2 entrances to the Baden Powell at the top of this hill . The entrance to your left , heads back to the Grouse Grind entrance . The entrance on your right , is a little ways down the road , and heads straight into a short downhill section of the Baden Powell . The trail markers to look for : At about 6 km 's into this route , there is a water fountain located on the side of the road . We did not know about this fountain ahead of time . This fountain is the next place where the trail crosses a road , but the entrance on the other side of the road is very easy to see . For the majority of the first 10 kms , the terrain is pretty technical , and is rolling hills . Almost all of this is runnable . After descending down a long flight of stairs , you come to the next place where the trail crosses a road . At this point , you can go to the left , through Lynn Headwaters , and re - join the Baden Powell trail at the parking lot to Lower Seymour Conservation Reserve ( very close to Rice Lake ) . The Kneeknacker course follows this route , and has an aid station at the Lscr parking lot area . Since we had n't run this route before , we decided to follow the signage for the Baden Powell trail , which took us to the right , for 1 km of road running , and then back into the trails before going across the Lynn Canyon suspension bridge . After we came across the suspension bridge , the Bp trail goes to the right . However , we were planning on stopping at the water fountain back at Lscr entrance , so we went to the left , and came out where we would have , had we followed the Kneeknacker route instead of marked Bp route . This section of the trail was the busiest section we navigated , due to all of the tourists at the suspension bridge and in the Lynn Canyon area . Our detour to the water fountain added on at least 1 - 2 kms , but it was necessary . We filled up our packs , and took a 10 min break in the shade of the gazebo . We had all brought along snacks , such as trail mix , my Fruit 'n'nut bars , and gels Given the choice , next time I would go to the left , avoid the congestion of the suspension bridge , and have the more direct route to the water fountain . After our break , we headed back to join up with the Bp , along the same trails as Kneeknacker takes , which runs parallel to the trail we took coming off of the suspension bridge . It is marked as " baden Powell this way " and is South West of the gazebo at Lscr next to the water fountain . This part of the trail is the least technical , and is a section that is used in both the Phantom , and the Hallow 's Eve races put on by Run the North Shore . There are a few intersections , where you have to be careful to read the signposts to stay on the Baden Powell trail . Coming out of the trail , you need to cross the road that leads into Lscr ( most people know it as the realllllllly long road with I ve hundred thousand speed bumps ) This marked our half way point between Grouse & Deep Cove , and Cath is posing with the beautiful Bp sign . After crossing the road , the trail heads into a short technical downhill section , crosses the river down some steep stairs , across a bridge , and back up the other side . The trail continues to the left , with another entrance , Hyannis , to your right . The next part of the trail is again rolling hills , with medium technicality . After coming up a short uphill , the trail again crosses a road and heads into more rolling hills , with a long section of uphill hiking mixed in . This part of the trail was probably the hardest for us , as we knew we were n't quite in the homestretch , and the sheer distance of the route we had chosen started to wear on us . Also , because none of us had either ran or hiked this section , we had no idea how much longer it would continue . This section we barely saw any other runner and 1 group that we did pass by , all cheered for us as we ran by them . That was probably the highlight of our morning - our little cheering section ! After the big climb , we got into a fast downhill section , and came out on Seymour Road , having to again cross the road to continue the trail . At this point , I ran out of water ! I 'm not sure what happened , as I thought I had more than enough after filling up at Lscr , but I guess the uphill climbs and warm weather needed more fluids than I expected . Luckily , the signpost let us know that it was just over 3 kms left to reach Deep Cove . Having run this section a few times before , I knew that it was all downhill until coming out on Indian Arm road , where you cross the road , heading to the left , and find the trail continues on the right side , a few blocks down the road . From here on out , you are in the final stretch of the route , but , it is a very busy section , as it is a popular hike from Deep Cove , and there is a beautiful viewpoint , Quarry Rock , that you will pass by . This section is almost all downhill , with a few short hills and stairs added in . This section is fairly technical , and becomes more technical with all the people who are hiking to Quarry Rock . Since I had only run this section during the Tender Knee race , I had never actually been to the view point , so we stopped briefly for a few photos . However , since it was a very warm and sunshiney day I was fading fast being out of water , so our break did n't last long . As we came out of the trail at Deep Cove , and headed back to our car , that was stocked with cold water , fresh fruit , snacks , and bathing suits , it was a great feeling of accomplishment . Approx 25 kms of trails , in 4.5 hours , on great trails , with good friends , and no injuries or mishaps , our adventure was a success ! I had packed a cooler with a half frozen water bottle , fresh cut watermelon , strawberries , and some more Fruit 'n"nut balls . Aileen ran across the street to the corner store and bought ice cream ( mmm...wish I had thought of that! ) , and Cathy & Mark enjoyed Pb&j he s they had packed . Cathy went for a short I m in the water , I he d my legs in the water , and enjoyed cooling off my tired feet . It was a gorgeous day , and we took a nice break on the grass to relax before heading back to Grouse to fetch the second car . Overall , it was a great trail run . It 's definitely not a run for beginners , but you could also just hike the trail if you got tired . The majority of the trail was rolling hills , with a few steep ascents and descents , and for the most part was fairly technical . The trail is also a hiking only trail , so you do n't have to worry about mountain bikers running you over . I was glad to have my hydration pack , as I carried water , snacks , and my cell phone easily . The only thing I would do differently is fill up with more water at half way . It took us 4.5 hours , with lots of breaks to re - group , and with a 10 min long half way re - fueling break . We were not pushing the speed at any time , and if we had run this course in a race , our time , I believe would have been closer to 3.5 hours . Cheers to a fantastic Saturday morning outing ! I wish I had take more photos of the actual terrain during the route , so i apologize for that lacking .
3  Vanessa Kohut travelled for 2 months in South America and she has really great memories of the four day circuit to the Salt Flats . Bolivia really surprised me . It can be a tough country to travel in but I really loved it . It 's poor , the bus system sucks , and there 's not a lot of choice in hostels and hotels . But it is really unique . There is a four - day circuit by jeep that many travellers take , either ending with or starting at the Salt Flats . We started in Tupiza instead of Uyuni so saw the Flats last , which I recommend for they are the highlight and it was nice to work up to that . Tupiza is a cute town and famous because the movie Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid was filmed there . Needless to say , it 's a good place to go horseback riding . There was a driver and a cook on our jeep trip and they both were also the tour guides . It was well organized with lots to see every day from abandoned towns to spectacular landscapes to flamingos . The scenery is beautiful yet quite barren since you 're driving through desert . Just the colour of the rocks is amazing . We stopped for picnic he s and slept in simple hotels each night . Everyone went out of their way to make us comfortable . Our jeep did n't break down so we were lucky but even if it had people would have stopped to help . The third evening was spent at hot springs which is nice because it is cold there at night . Then very early the fourth day we went to the Salt Flats and he d the sun rise . It 's really awesome because it is the biggest salt field in the world . It 's like an inland sea but one that is flat and white . It is quite amazing and rather eerie . We drove right on top of the flats . There 's an island there with lots of cactus . We had fun taking photos because all that whiteness fools the eye . This four - day circuit was a highlight of my South American trip . We actually knew very little about it and thought it would be just a side trip . But it surprised us because it was so unique . It was also super cheap - something like $ 120 for four days . It was quite different from our trek to Machu Picchu for that required making arrangements from home and it cost a lot of money . There are big changes when you travel from country to country in South America . Bolivia is very poor . For instance , when we went to a restaurant in Bolivia there would n't be any locals eating there because they could n't afford it . But when we crossed the border into Argentina , we could n't afford to eat in the same restaurants as the locals !
3  It 's always nice to have a bit of a lie - down Main menu Post navigation Bliss at the Blue Lagoon spa in Iceland Readers of this blog will know that when it comes to steamy heat , or water therapy , I 'm a huge fan . Combine the two , in dazzling natural surroundings , and it 's hard to imagine a more delighted Spy . Visiting the Blue Lagoon has always been on my Must - do list . A trip to Reykjavik to see the Northern Lights meant that I was finally able to visit . Reykjavik Excursions picked me up directly from my hotel . As I was flying back to the Uk later that day , they securely stored my luggage at the Lagoon gates . The outing is the perfect preor post - flight tonic as the Blue Lagoon lies half - way between the airport and Reykjavik town centre . The snowy road It was snowing when I arrived . Icy winds blew , bringing the temperatures to a frosty - 10 C . The sky was dove grey . The path that led to the Lagoon twisted and turned with snow - flecked volcanic black rocks lining the path on each side . On the bus trip , I 'd caught tantalising glimpses of steam rising , from what I guessed was the Lagoon on the horizon . The hidden entrance made me feel that I was about to experience something a little magical . The reception area was smart , clean , and far more modern than I 'd pictured . A recent refurbishment and expansion has created a truly stylish space , with a cafe bar and restaurant area with stunning views over the Lagoon . Check - in was swift . I opted to try the I ve lounge , which gives you access to your own locked private changing and shower room , and also a relaxing Vip lounge with fresh fruit , herb teas and bowls of delicious chocolates ! I loved that you could access the lagoon though a private swim - through door , too . Very ritzy . Running barefoot through the snow to reach the steaming Lagoon , with its milky - blue water , is something that will stay with me forever . I 'm a total coward when it comes to the hot thing , even though I know how good it is for you ! But when in Iceland , do as the Icelanders do . . . The waters beckon So , with my feet numb from the snowy cold , I he d into the pool and felt the hot - bath - warmth of the thermal water instantly heat my chilly body - and make my feet tingle ! The silky - soft geothermal water is silica - rich , and silica has I ve healing and anti - ageing properties . My skin definitely felt smooth after a few hours bobbing around , and somehow tighter , more youthful - looking , too . One warning : the silica plays havoc with your hair ! My advice : load up your hair with conditioner and wear a bathing cap ! I 'd booked in for a 20 - minute water massage . To the side of the main lagoon was a quiet , smaller pool area . Here , therapists dressed in warm hats and waterproof fleeces were in the water , gently steering around blissed - out clients on inflatable beds , covered in waterproof blankets ! Once I 'd managed to rather gracelessly climb on board my floating bed , my therapist covered me in a blanket , which initially felt chilly , but , as the warm water penetrated , heated up . I slipped down the straps of my swimming costume and wriggled it down to my waist . I was still completely covered up , though , and did n't feel at all embarrassed . My therapist applied a generous coating of oil to my back and began a gentle massage , applying pressure between the inflatable bed and my back , neck and arms . The waters are essentially self - cleaning as the lagoon holds six million litres of geo - thermal brine , all of which is renewed in 40 hours . While my massage was going on , my therapist slowly towed me around the pool . My eyes were closed . I was conscious only that I was floating , slowly moving , and feeling probably more womb - like than I 'd felt in 40 years ! It was an amazing experience . The breathtakingly beautiful surroundings , combined with the expert pressure - point and smooth - strokes massage that I received in such an unusual way , was absolutely fantastic . I 'm already planning a summer visit back to see what Iceland is like when the sun stays up for days on end !
3  F.e.sillanp Upper Secondary School in H meenkyr ! Welcome to read about life in F.e.sillanp Upper Secondary School ! Saturday , 17 November 2012 A Trip to France Our French group had a pleasant continuation to our autumn holiday : a five - day trip to France ! This time the group was really small , 8 students from the 1st , 2nd and 3rd grades , and our teachers Leena Klemets and Taina Salonen . However , a small group like this guaranteed a very good team spirit and the easiness of staying together . The feelings before the trip were quite expectant , and for some of us it was hard to realize even during the trip that we actually were in France . I did n't feel especially nervous in Finland , but when we landed in Paris , I was a little unsure about what would be ahead of us , thought 1st grade student Janne Suominen . The preconceptions were unnecessary , because already the climate was a pleasant surprise : while in Finland it had started to snow , in France we had about + 20 degrees during the warmest days . However , at the end of the week jackets really were needed . We spent our nights in local families ( one pair in one family ) in the small city of Bretigny . This way we could be especially near to the French culture and language : in some families you could n't get any help of the English language . At the very beginning , using and undestanding French felt really hard , but luckily at the end of the trip a lot of development could be noticed . It was really hard to try to speak and understand French on the first day . I felt that I forgot even the easiest and the most familiar words , not to mention the hard ones . Little by little I started to remember more and every day it was easier to understand French and to pronounce it and form sentences , said 1st grade student Suvi - tuuli M kikauppila . In the very end it was more about your courage to use French than your actual ability to speak it . Via effort and mistakes agreement was always found . We had only the mornings and the evenings to spend with the families because most days were full of interesting and versatile program : on three mornings we went to the local upper secondary school , Lyc e Jean - pierre Timbaut , where we had lessons for three hours in French . After the lessons we went to the centre of Paris by metros and local trains led by our top - quide . On the first day we visited Notre - dame cathedral , the shopping avenue of Saint Michel , the Eiffel Tower , the shopping avenue Champs - elys es and the Triumphal arch ( arc de Triomphe ) . The sights were just as gorgeous as we were expecting , and the large views from the Eiffel Tower vantage point were breathtaking . Other sights were for example the Castle of Versailles and Louvre art museum , where we could see the gorgeous glass pyramid and the original Mona Lisa - painting . On the last day we had a tour in Montmarte , where we saw for example the church of Sacr Coeur , the square of artists and two cabarees , Lapin Agile and the more famous Moulin Rouge . We also visited the huge shopping mall , Lafayette , and some of us The Hard Rock cafe , too . Our versatile programme included something for everyone , and I think our expectations were fulfilled positively . Versailles ' rooms were really gorgeous and full of luxury ! One part of the gorgeous garden of Versailles . In front of the glassy pyramid entrance of the Louvre art museum . My favorite sight was the Eiffel Tower , I think . My expectations we fulfilled quite well , although I did n't expect Versailles and Louvre to be so enormous , says 1st grade student Annika Kaasalainen . All in all our trip was a real success and full of unforgettable experiences . In addition of testing our language skills , our trip was a I ve into the French culture , and French people received us in a really friendly way . One evening we had an opportunity to test ordering our meal in French , and everyone managed great . My feelings after the trip were magnificent . I feel our French group has become more united , thought 2nd grade student Juuso Kosola . Even though we had I ve amazing days behind us , the trip was also quite heavy in places , so it was really rewarding to get back to Finland , especially after the problems with the airplane and the taxi . We came back home exteremly tired but happy . We had a great time in France , but it 's always nice to return to finland , says suominen at the very end .
3  A journey to Nizwa , Oman 's ancient capital By Habeeb Salloum 31 Oct , 2012 , 10:32 " i can n't believe it ! Today , we 'll be travelling into Arab history . " My daughter Muna was excited as we left our Hotel , one of the top abodes in Muscat , Oman 's spread - out capital . In a few minutes we were on a wide avenue on our way to Nizwa the most important city in Oman 's history . Our journey would take us through the Hajar Mountains to this town that is still the throbbing heart of Oman . It was pleasant driving along the 35 km ( 22 mi ) long thoroughfare that joins the greater Muscat area . Both sides were lined with well - tended greenery and beyond , sparkling white villas and other structures , incorporating the best of traditional and modern architecture , created a magical atmosphere . " its a fairytale town ! " Muna remarked as we passed Muscat 's International airport , some 20 km ( 12 mi ) from our hotel . A moment later , we turned left at the I ve Clock Tower Roundabout , then made our way westward along a superb four - lane highway . Soon we were in the foothills of the bare Hajar Mountains . Even though the hills did not indicate any vegetation , they diffused a kaleidoscope of colours . From grey , green , red to golden - yellow , it was a delightful lunar - like landscape made for an artist 's brush . While admiring the scenic view , I was startled to hear my daughter call out , " look ! The gas tank is almost empty ! Do you want us to walk ? It 's a barren land ! We 'll never find a gas station ! " She had barely he d chiding me when the town of Fanja came in sight . Her panic attack had been quickly allayed . The bustling town of Fanja , like all small or large Omani urban centres had very clean and paved streets , well - kept homes and striking heritage monuments decorating the sides of the avenues . The reincarnation of its villages and towns has been a great achievement for a nation which less than three decades ago had only 8 km ( 5 mi ) of paved roads , virtually no electricity and towns with poorly built homes surrounded by littered streets . A short distance after Fanja , the four - lane highway tapered down to two lanes , cutting through barren mountains that glimmered in the sunlight and diffused a never - ending series of interchanging colours . Many centuries ago , copper was mined extensively in these hills - exuding with an aura of a green patina . The copper of Magan ( the classical name for Oman ) was well known in the ancient world . A poet once described these hills as ' purple beaded mountains , one rising behind the other '. Along the roadside , in the valleys , here and there were scattered villages ringed by spots of greenery . The vast escarpment of Jebel Akhdar ( green Mountain ) , part of the Hajar Mountains , looked down on these barren lowlands , barely decorated with trees and shrubs . As we drove along , every once - in - a - while we would see hills , crowned with ancient watchtowers . We had often noted these towers along the Omani coast where they were employed to spot enemy ships . Around Ghaylah , surrounded by palm groves , the number of these watchtowers increased . Apparently , in the past , instead of looking for enemy ships , they acted as sentinels to spot marauding tribes looking for plunder . After the Sumail gap , we drove through some dozen wadis ( dry river beds ) , which , due the heavy rains in the previous few days , were now rushing streams . The water , in many places , was flowing over the road , at times , near a foot deep . I feared that our small Ford Tempo would stall in the running water . However , on both journeys , going and coming , all went well . At Izki , noted for its large military base , we turned right toward Nizwa . A few minutes later , we stopped for refreshments at the Nizwa Hotel a watering hole for tourists . After talking to the manager , who , like many others in the Gulf area wanted to immigrate to Canada , we continued our journey . In about 20 minutes , we entered the outskirts of Nizwa on an avenue lined with palms and architecturally stunning modern buildings . On our left rose the old city with its magnificent restored fort , dominating the skyline . Turning toward the walled city , we crossed a wide - shallow stream where people , taking advantage of the unusual flowing water , were washing their autos . Past a large blue and gold - domed mosque , the main landmark in town , we parked our car on the main street of this former capital of Oman . A city of 85,000 Nizwa is , after Muscat , the country 's most popular tourist destination . Like us , few visitors to Oman leave the country without at least making a day 's trip to explore this historic city , important since the dawn of Islam . In the 7th century , it was one of the first towns in the region that received the I m emissaries , sent by the Prophet Muhammad and led by ' amr Ibn al- 'as. Later early in Islamic history a sect calling themselves Khawarj broke away from mainstream Islam . Later , a section of this sect , led by Abdullah ibn Abadha , he d their own type of Islam , which became known as Ibadhi after its leader . They made Nizwa their holy city and it remained a stronghold of their Imams ( religious leaders ) until a few decades ago . For centuries , Nizwa was an important hub on the prosperous incense and copper caravan routes . However , in the ensuing centuries , the city and . surrounding countryside became lawless and until a few decades ago , travellers if they wanted to visit the town , took their life into their own hands . The famous Arab traveller Ibn Battuta who visited the city in the 13th century , describing its people , wrote : " they are a bold and brave race and the tribes are perpetually at war with each other . " Today , like all towns and cities in Oman , it is one of the safest cities in the world . As we walked on our way to explore the old town , a young man he d us , " i 'll show you the city " , he smilingly volunteered . Introducing himself as Nassar , he continued , " i do n't want anything . I have nothing to do . " Listening to him , I thought , " this is my chance . " One of the main reasons for my journey was to visit the oldest mosque in Nizwa that reportedly has three mihrabs , the earliest facing Jerusalem . It was erected before the Prophet Muhammad 's revelation that Muslims had to face toward Mecca when praying . The young man said that he knew this mosque and also other important tourist sites . Accompanied by Nassar , we toured the souk ( market ) , built in an I ve Omani style and offering the best of Omani jewellery , traditional daggers , scimitars and other wood and metal handicrafts for which the region has long been famous . However , we did not buy any of these artisan products - the prices were higher than those in Muscat . After exploring the next - door air - conditioned fruit and vegetable market , I ve by its tidiness and cleanliness , we climbed to the top of the restored cylindrical Nizwa Fort . Built in 1860 by the Imam Sultan bin Said al - yarubi as a bastion for the Ibadha Imamate , it served as a seat of government and a prison . From its ramparts there was a superb view of the finest date plantation in Oman - stretching for 8 km ( 5 mi ) . With Nassar , we left the old city then drove to the outskirts to see the Falaj Daris - the largest falaj ( an ancient type of irrigation system ) in Oman whose waters spring from the overshadowing Jebel Akhdar . We rested awhile by its cool flowing waters , then left for the nearby village of Sa 'al where Nassar said we would find the ancient mosque . As we drove on the village 's unpaved streets , Nassar had me stop a number of times to ask directions , raising my suspicion that he did not know anything about the mosque . After about half a dozen attempts , a boy riding a bicycle heard us ask about what by now seemed to me a mirage . He motioned us to follow . I parked our auto , then we walked on clean streets between old homes until the boy pointed to an ancient building atop a rise on the ground , saying , " Masjid Sa`al ! " Inside , there was only one mihrab that had seen better days . I was annoyed , " it 's not the mosque we 're looking for . " Nassar seemed embarrassed , " come ! I 'll take you to one of my learned friends . " In less than 10 minutes we were back in the old city talking to his friend Muhammad . " i 've never heard of a mosque with three mihrabs , he asserted . " but I 've read in a number of books about this mosque " , I retorted . Muhammad snickered , " many writers love to tell fairytales . The oldest mosque we have here is the one Nassar showed you . " Bewildered , I dismissed Nassar , paying I m handsomely for his few hours with us . Had Muhammad and Nassar duped me ? I did not know . My search for the ancient mosque had been pointless . In any case , our trip had not been in vain . Even though we had not found the old mosque , we had travelled through a fantastic mountainous landscape then explored a town renowned in history that has been recast into a tourist mecca and , to top it all , tasted the sweet hilwa ( sweet ) for which nizwa is renowned .
3  Story Short : Hitchhiking race to Christchurch Airport I took my eyes off the main road and glimpsed at my watch : I 've waited for just over an hour . After four hours of which the Qantas flight to Australia would depart , followed by that arriving in Melbourne - a flight that will depart , regardless of the presence or absence of an expected passenger . The chill had eased , and the morning haze ascended to unveil a glistening Lake Tekapo in crystalline sapphire - the warning sign . Channelling all my body 's strength into keeping my arm raised , as though by clenching my fist harder into the thumbs - up would will drivers into picking me up and delivering me all the way to Christchurch . But then , there 's not a lot of traffic headed in the right direction . Even though Tekapo is a popular destination , its visitors are mostly those stopping by on their commute between more - frequented ports of call , like Queenstown and Christchurch itself . It was a fact I had neglected to notice : shuttle buses and local transport did n't originate from Tekapo , but reaching it no earlier than midday from farther afield and will n't reach Christchurch until early evening . My flight was to leave at one . With no other options - and I did n't want to depart Tekapo until the morning of my flight , in order to spend more time with my friend Kyla - i had resolved to risk it and hitchhike . In desperation I accepted a ride from a truck driver , who , half an hour ago , offered me a ride 50km down the road , but only if I had still no luck getting picked up after her half - hour break . Intermittently , between conversations and tossing packaged newspaper out of the window - the driver delivered papers to the remoter parts - nervousness would swell in my chest as the digits on my watch flickered , all whilst the confined speed limit of the lorry had me think I was lagging behind schedule . Just as my feet hit solid ground again , this time in Fairlie , I hoisted my thumb again . Logistics played against me yet again : I 'd given way my Christchurch sign , the traffic thinned and , sympathetic as they were , most drivers were n't going anywhere other than within town . My prior optimism trickled away and evaporated . Then , kicking up dust as its tyres ground to a halt , beside my increasingly quivering and anxious stance , the opportunity arose . For one fleeting instant of observation and assessment , I concluded it was another bogus : the vehicle was packed full , with four girls of Asian appearance occupying both front and back seats . I spoke to the occupants through the side window - they seemed eager to help , yet held back by a mist of reservation and insecurity . Then I caught their brisk dialogues amongst themselves - in a foreign tongue that was instinctively comprehended by language receptors . They were speaking Cantonese , which is none other than my own mother tongue . I mustered every eloquence of my near - forgotten lingo , surprising the four Malaysian Chinese as I fought to I m their sympathy , impressing them enough to promptly make space and implored me to wedge , body and backpacks , into the front passenger seat . Nervously I conversed with them , eyes imposed upon the flickering digits of my watch in passing intervals , just as the car sped towards Christchurch and I maintained my charm with three languages - now including Mandarin - in rapid alteration . They drove me all the way to the airport - a diversion from their original destination - and upon a playfully - stern warning that I should endeavour such risky a journey , I uttered my gratitude in as many languages as we shared in understanding , and in as many seconds as I could afford , and he d towards the terminal building . You know how I love to hitchhike as well ! This is crazy though ! I 'm not sure I could do it with a time constraint to catch a flight ! You are just so lucky that those women spoke Cantonese and you could use that commonality to bring them around . Glad you made your flight http : Dylan Lowe Tell ya what : I 've never going to take this level of risk ever again . I could physically , unmetaphorically feel my blood pressure scale . It 's possibly the most stationary thing you can do - there with your thumb out - to get a high - concentration adrenaline rush . Having said that , I always go back on my word when it comes to hitchhiking
3  There 's a 35 - metre - high waterfall cascading down the mountain in front of me , its sides blanketed in orchids , bromeliads and sinister - looking carnivorous pitcher plants . The air is laden with moisture and in the distance huge trees , up to 16 storeys high , loom up beyond the mist . Physically I 'm in Singapore , but my senses are telling me I 've stumbled on to the moon Pandora and any minute now a sleek blue Avatar is going to stalk into view . This is the Gardens by the Bay , a horticultural Disneyland in the very best sense of the word , where a quarter of a million trees , flowers and other plants grow against almost surreal surroundings of man - made giant trees he d in natural greenery and sensuously curved glass giomes ( glasshouses ) . One of Singapore 's newest attractions , the 101 - hectare gardens cost about $ 1 billion and took six years to create . It 's a jaw - dropping place and remarkably , a considerable portion of the complex can be enjoyed free of charge . The gardens ' two giant conservatories are spectacular in their own right , but it 's the grove of supertrees that steal the show . There are 12 of these clustered together ( and a further six through the rest of the site ) , ranging from 25 - metres to 50 - metres tall . These I ve structures have " trunks " he d in more than 160,000 plants in total bromeliads , orchids , ferns and climbers . However , they are far more than just a " pretty face " . The trunks fan out at the top and function as raincatchers . They are also fitted with solar panels and work as air exhausts for the huge glasshouses . There 's a 128 - metre - long aerial walkway connecting two of the " trees " , which provides a stunning view of not only the gardens , but the Marina Bay Sands complex ( you can see people swimming in the infinity edge pool that spans across the top of the towers ) and a vast expanse of the ever - changing Singapore skyline . The central and tallest tree will house a restaurant on its upper levels this was still a work in progress when I was there recently . Do n't venture up to the walkway if you suffer from vertigo . I occasionally succumb to a moderate fear of heights and I 'd developed sweaty palms about halfway across , at which point I did seriously consider crawling the rest of the way . Down at ground level the supertree grove is surrounded by four heritage gardens set beside the Dragonfly Lake . These symbolise Singapore 's rich history by recreating Chinese , Malay , Indian and colonial gardens . Many of the mature trees here have clearly been in position for only a matter of months , but in Singapore 's tropical climate will soon be growing rampantly ; as will the underplanting of flowering plants , groundcovers and shrubs . The Dragonfly Lake , which forms a moat around much of the garden , is , like the supertrees , not only for decoration . It 's designed to be a habitat for insect and birdlife , but the reed beds around its edge also serve as filters for wastewater from the conservatories . As we tend to associate conservatories with warm , moist conditions , ( an almost perpetual state of being in Singapore , anyway ) I was almost reluctant to enter the Flower Dome , expecting to be dripping with sweat in no time . So it was a surprise to find , in contrast to the outside temperature , it was positively cool . The dome is temperature - controlled to create conditions suitable for cool , dry Mediterranean plants and species happy in semi - arid and sub - tropical conditions , which means it 's also a haven for hot , sticky New Zealanders . This dome is billed as the world 's largest columnless greenhouse and it too has state - of - the - art , environmentally friendly features . It 's cooled by chilled water circulating through ground slabs and covered with special glass that lets in sufficient light , but repels heat . Along with the I ve plant collections from south - east Australia , Chile , California , the Mediterranean and South Africa , there are also seasonal exhibits of flowers and produce . When I was there , the centre of the dome looked like a harvest festival scene on a grand scale , complete with multicoloured pumpkins , artistic pillars of corn cobs , he s of chrysanthemums and among it all , scarecrows , assorted fake poultry and a huge cornucopia spilling with autumn bounty . It was clear that this was the place for the locals ( who have been quick to embrace the gardens as a favourite destination ) to pose for photos and strategically placed he s and bowers were everywhere to provide suitable photography spots . A waterfall spilled down the 35 - metre - high flank of the artificial mountain in the centre of the dome , misting the plants that covered its sides . It 's the largest indoor waterfall in the world . Epiphytes of all kinds , including orchids , were flowering on the walls , along with the carnivorous pitcher plants and begonias . Aerial walkways snaked around the mountains taking visitors beneath the waterfall , through a cave of giant quartz crystals , stalactites and stalagmites and past banks of a rainbow array of vireya rhododendrons . There 's only the occasional lurch into kitsch ( which considering Singapore is home to the rather odd Merlion statues and other similar excess on Sentosa Island , are mercifully few ) with lifesize wooden crocodiles making an appearance in the ground - level pools , along with a land snail that if for real would be able to mow down small children . Singapore 's authorities want to promote the gardens as one of the premier outdoor recreation spots for its citizens , as well as serving as the lungs of the city . It 's clear the locals are responding , but I predict the gardens will also become one of the island state 's most popular overseas visitor attractions too . You do n't need to be a plant geek to be he d by the breathtaking design of the supertrees and to enjoy the sheer audacity of the whole place . With its seasonal displays in the Flower Dome and the fascination of watching the trees and other plants mature over time , it will also be a place to visit more than once . The Details If you 're a first - time visitor do n't skimp on buying tickets for both the Flower Dome and the Cloud Forest - they are well worth the money . If heights are not a problem also make sure you purchase tickets for the Skyway . But be warned , this aerial walkway is very high and is not recommended if you suffer from vertigo . If you buy tickets for the two conservatories and the walkway the total cost is about $ nz33 . Go early in the day and explore the outside gardens first before the temperature and humidity build up . The two domes are ideal havens when it is hot and sticky outside . Do visit the gardens at night to see the supertree lightshow . As access to the outdoor gardens is free you will n't have to pay to enjoy this . You can walk to the gardens via a bridge linking them with the Marina Bay Sands complex , or take the Mrt train line to the Bayfront Station  Taxis Are Another Convenient And I ve Option 
3  Vegas day 1 : On the edge of exhaustion Solar heat generators being constructed near the border of California and Nevada We were really tired after a restless night on an uncomfortable bed in Hollywood . The sound of the odd firecracker died down , replaced by noisy people outside our room . We had breakfast in the room , bought the night before at the local 7 11 . Forgetting spoons , we picked the breakfast cereal out of the cups they came in with our fingers . The cab arrived early and we left in a mad scramble , making sure nothing was left behind . " to the Roosevelt " we said , and we were there in a few minutes . There we picked up a shuttle that then took us to I m where a bigger bus was waiting to take us to Vegas . Greeted by a woman that was a self - proclaimed " goofball " ( not sure what that means ) we got comfy for the 4 and a half our trip to Vegas . It was scary stopping at the half way point . They call it Barstow Station . The smell as you walked in was confrontingly strange - like sweet and sour sauce and toilet urinal block smell mixed together . I waited in the queue for the mens thinking I 'd have to plan my toilet stops better when we take the bus back to I m to go the Disneyland a couple of weeks later . The Luxor from our room ( three blocks from the strip ) Dropped off at Harrah 's, we then it to our final destination - embassy Suites ( two blocks off the Strip - blocks are big here ) . Exhausted , we spent the afternoon by the pool . We visited the hard rock cafe across the road for dinner .
3  Top Things to do with Kids in Sydney Pack your bags , grab the family , and head to Sydney to experience an inner - city winter wonderland . The Alpine Winter Festival has returned to Sydney for its third time and is running until August 11 th . Go skating , get a lesson , or watch the pros perform on Australia 's largest open - air skating rink , measuring 1,000m by 1,000m . After , warm up in the Apline Ski Hut , where you can dine and drink next to fireplaces . Alternatively , browse through the over 20 stalls offering cultural cuisines and indulge in the free chai lattes . Your family may also enjoy watching ice craving demonstrations , concerts , and more . Located in the iconic Cathedral Square , this event is truly fun for the whole family . The family fun does not end at Sydney ' s events , however ; there are plenty of attractions to amuse , educate and entertain . Children and adults alike love the city 's many opportunities to meet wildlife . Walk under water at the Sydney Aquarium and see a new world of marine habitats and life , including over 12,000 different animals . Check out the three oceanariums and 90 tanks and catch the daily animal shows . Meet some of Australia 's furry creatures at the Sydney Wildlife World . Here , meet Koalas Red Kangaroos , Yellow - footed Wallabies , Hairy - nosed Wombats , Bilbies , Quolls and Sugar - gliders . Also , see the world 's most dangerous bird , the Cassowary , and the nation 's largest snake , the Scrub Python . To see these animals in a unique location , take a cruise to visit the Taronga Zoo . Situated on elevated land along the water , you enjoy beautiful views of the Sydney Harbour while visiting your favourite Aussie animals . While being a fun city with many attractions , Sydney is also home to many beautiful beaches . So , pack the spades and buckets , slop on the sunscreen , and hit one of the area 's kid - friendly beaches , including Bronte , Manly , Balmoral , Nielsen Park and Shelley Beach . These are just some of the exciting options Sydney offers parents and children . Click here for a full list of things to do in Sydney . Whatever time of year you visit , you will find plenty of family fun in this city !
3  I walked for a few hours in the morning to get my bearings on the city of New Orleans . About 1 pm , I booked myself into a bus tour suggested by staff at my hotel . I stayed at Best Western and was upgraded into a bigger bedrooms with windows at no extra charged . I was really lucky to be offered such services . However you need to put in a request at the time of booking . Yes , there are rooms with fake windows ! I did managed to inspect one of those rooms . Very clean , just as nice but slightly smaller rooms . This Vip City Tour cost me Us$45 per adult , Children ( 4 - 12years)us$30 . In my opinion , kids will not enjoy such tours . My tour guide is wonderful and knowledgable . This tour combines history , personal experiences and all there is to offer to visitors in terms of tips on what they can do during the few days they may be at New Orleans . The tour also includes:view of the areas and houses affected by the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina . In fact the hurricane did not do much damage to the houses in New Orleans but it was the floodwater from Lake Pontchartrain when the levy broke as a result of Hurricane Katrina . drove through the lower 9th ward , witnessing the transformation as resident rebuild their homes . explanation of the cross sign written on the external walls of unstable houses . showed us the houses that were in the richer neighborhood , that was covered by insurance as compared to those that were not covered by insurance . view the houses behind the levy and notice how low these houses are as compared to the levy . view the reclaimed land that was once a canal , hand dug by French convicts saw the overpass that was built , by sacrificing many trees , ( hundreds ) . Now the pillars of the beams are painted to resemble trees and serves as a reminder to us that these trees were chopped down to enable the construction of the overpass . saw the different style of houses built e.g front door open straight to the back to allow airflow ( sometimes called shotgun houses as you can shoot a shotgun from front door to the back ) . There are also houses that have 2 stairs in the front to allow owners to split the house into 2 for dual occupancy . This means the house have rooms on either side of a long hallway . Saw the houses at Bywater , French Quarters and Treme , the one and a half story home with their unique pitch roof and front stoops set along the sidewalk . These designs of homes are apparently similar to cottages built in France around the same time in the 18th and 19th centuries . Also saw the Creole town houses , with shops below and homes above with the full third story , distinguishing them from the American townhouses . After the great fires of 1788 and 1794 destroyed most of the houses in the French Quarters , these brick and stuccoes brick structures were built with a strong Spanish influence . Double gallery houses are houses with verandah and are double story and has door to the side and are set back from the sidewalks . These are seen mostly in the Garden district areas well known for being the neighbourhood for the richer Americans whose homes were built on generous plots of land with magnificent gardens discover the birthplace of Jazz , in the French quarters see the infamous Bourbon Street ( mainly for tourist ) and Frenchman street ( mainly for locals ) saw one of the oldest cathedrals in the Usa , the St . Louis Cathedral hop off the bus to visit a cemetery , sometimes know as the Cities of the Dead and appreciate how they bury the dead ( above ground due to most of the city areas are 6 feet under water ) with many coffins in one burial spot ! . I wandered among the cities unique above ground tombs , stone sarcophagi and I ve headstones . Lafayette cemetery had been featured in movies such as " interview with a Vampire " and " Double Jeopardy " droved pass the Garden District and checked out how the rich lived saw the home of the author Anne Rice checked out the carriage tours with their beloved mule ( not horses ) in front of Jackson Square . Checkout the soulful jazz performance in front of St Louis Cathedral next to Jackson Square . Other Tours:there is another tour group that I was considering . It goes to similar places as with the Vip tour that I choose . The only difference I feel is that this other tour uses a trolley bus instead of an air - condition bus ( it was hot that day ) and it cost Us $ 49 , where as Vip tour cost Us$45 per adult . The other difference I noticed from comparing the brochures is that the Vip visited the sites of the Hurricane Katrina but the trolley tour did not mention these sites , Thus I was unsure if they will go there . The cost and visiting the sites of Hurricane Katrina made me decide on the Vip tour . There is a hop on and off bus in New Orleans that covers the downtown area for Us$40 per adult . In fact , I did n't feel the need to use the hop on off bus in New Orleans . I walked from one attraction to the next . I personally feel that the attraction that were to far away were not important to me eg Mardi Gras World . In fact this place wants you to pay entrance fees and visit them so much that they are willing to provide free shuttle to outside the convention centre . In my opinion , there is not much to see in New Orleans so I personally did n't feel there is a need for even a 2 or 3 day ticket . For an extra Us$5 , I prefer a more indebted commentary with any tour company even if it is 2 hours only . Combined with 2 free walking tours , I probably know more about New Orleans than what some of the locals know ! The walking distance from one corner to the next is a very short block . For example from one end of Bourbon Street to the other end only takes 15 minutes . I am not a fast walker . Just average walking steps . Tip : It is a good idea to go on any bus tour that gives you an overview of the damaged done to the city as a result of Hurricane Katrina , a good commentary on the French Quarters , the Garden District and the cemeteries of New Orleans . Combine this with a a free walking tour . If you have any questions , we will try my best to answer them for you ( based on our personal experiences ) . Otherwise , we love to hear from you . I ve us your feedback on this article or leave us a comment
3  A Couple of Alpine Hits It was not all work this summer , I did manage to squeeze in a couple of quick easy alpine climbs , both in Glacier National park , and both quite enjoyable . These pics show a gorgeous sunny day out on the East Face of the Rampart , combined with a traverse of Mt Afton via the South and East ridges . The steeper sections of the East Face route were on good quality rock , and who does n't like kilometres of easy ridge scrambling ? Joey V on the solid rock of the second pitch . Myself enjoying sunshine and clean rock . Photo Joey Vosburgh . A short section of hand crack had me dreaming of Squamish . Photo Joey Vosburgh . The other sweet day out was a traverse of the Terminal Peaks from South to North with my room - mate Travis . We had a good early start , and we where surprised at how quick we were up the Perley Rock Trail and on the glacier below the route . Travis approaching the south end of South Terminal . A couple of awkward moves right off the get go proved to be the scariest spot , and we easily scrambled up the south ridge of South Terminal , and after a nice warm summit snack , continued on to North Terminal and down the now slushy south - facing snow slopes . On the way we passed by this small pinnacle balanced on the ridge . A great day in the pass , incredible close up views of Sir Donald and down into the Beaver Valley . The Terminal area is also a great ski tour , here are some photos from an outing last winter with joey and danyelle .
3  New Zealand Tips & articles New Zealand for Hobbit - hunters : how to visit Middle - earth Sarah Bennett and Lee Slater Lonely Planet Author Note : Javascript is disabled in your browser . To see the gallery in all its glory , you 'll need to enable Javascript . Famed for dramatic scenery that has long - inspired writers , artists and dreamers , it was only a matter of time before New Zealand made a name for itself in the movies . Advancing its rise to stardom is Peter Jackson , the Kiwi film director who brought the blockbusting Lord of the Rings trilogy to the big screen . His upcoming Hobbit trilogy will once again put New Zealand 's beauty under the spotlight . Jrr Tolkien set both The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings in ' middle-earth ', a mythical land inspired partly by the author 's childhood explorations of rural England . Jackson 's home turf , New Zealand , proved the perfect setting for Middle-earth 's re - creation , with more than 150 locations around the country featured in The Lord of the Rings ( Lotr ) . Lotr sets were dismantled when filming ended in 2000 , while those for The Hobbit remain a closely guarded secret , in theory at least . One exception is the Hobbits ' village , Hobbiton . Nestled in green hills near Matamata two hours ' I ve south of Auckland , the set was rebuilt for The Hobbit in permanent materials so that fans can continue to visit it . Hobbiton Movie Set Tours ( www.hobbitontours.com ) take in sights such as the he d bridge , Party Tree , and a host of Hobbit holes including the home of Bilbo Baggins , Bag End . Little imagination is needed to conjure up scenes that unfolded elsewhere , such as Tongariro National Park near the resort town of Taupo . All three of its brute volcanoes starred , with Mount Ruapehu - the largest - taking the plum role of Sauron 's stronghold , Mordor . Varied hiking paths wend amid the peaks , with guidance available from the National Park visitor centre ( www.doc.govt.nz ) . Much more filming occurred on Department of Conservation ( www.doc.govt.nz ) land throughout the country , freely accessible to visitors and threaded with walks , cycling trails and picnic spots . Another Lotr location was Canaan Downs , a hilltop scenic reserve between Motueka and Golden Bay in the South Island 's Nelson Region . Stands of ancient beech trees bounded by rolling meadow scattered with eerie rock formations made for a magical Chetwood Forest ( where Aragorn leads the Hobbits soon after they leave Bree ) . Canaan is a rewarding detour off the main road , and within a stone 's throw of three national parks - abel Tasman , Kahurangi , and Nelson Lakes . The vast , unpopulated landscapes of the South Island served Lotr well . In Mt Cook Mackenzie Country , three hours southwest of Christchurch , Sauron 's orcs he d with the men of Gondor and Rohan on Pelennor Fields . While the battlefield is on private land , the incredible Mackenzie basin - golden grasslands , surreal blue lakes and backdrop of the Southern Alps - will I ve you a delectable taste of the action . The view from Tekapo 's Mt John Observatory ( earthandskynz.com ) is one of the grandest in the land , day or night . The outdoor adventure mecca of Queenstown was a hotbed of Lotr activity . Among the many locations to be found in its ranges is the realm of Lothlorien near Glenorchy , and the Ford of Bruinen and Gladden Fields set in the surrounds of nuggetty Arrowtown . Picturesque Chard Farm ( www.chardfarm.co.nz ) winery affords views of Argonath on the Anduin River ( the Pillar of Kings ) , digitally generated but easily re - imagined astride the spectacular Kawarau Gorge - home to the original Aj Hackett Bungy . The hub for Lotr and Hobbit fans , however , is Wellington - home not only to Peter Jackson 's studios but also the Weta Cave , the mini - museum of the team behind the films ' amazing special effects . Joining them in the heart of ' wellywood ' is the extravagantly he d Roxy Cinema ( www.roxycinema.co.nz ) and the historic Embassy Theatre , which hosted the world premiere of Lotr : The Return of the King in 2003 . The red carpet will be rolled out again for The Hobbit : An Unexpected Journey on 28 November . The most accessible Wellington film location is Mount Victoria in the middle of the city . Its forested slopes assumed the role of Hobbiton Woods , where the Hobbits hid from the Black Riders . Numerous other locations are within easy driving distance , including the River Anduin , Gardens of Isengard , and Rivendell recast within Kaitoke Regional Park ( www.gw.govt.nz ) . In the wine - soaked Wairarapa , the spooky Putangirua Pinnacles ( see here ) are where Aragorn , Legolas and Gimli sought the Paths of the Dead . These and Lotr locations nationwide can be explored independently or on tours . ( Newzealand.com has details . ) Rumour and speculation are rife concerning Hobbit film locations , with many credible witnesses to suspicious activity involving scaffolding , horse floats , out - sized catering orders and that guy from Sherlock  But For Now ^zz++++=EXTRAWORD The Wait Continues.  
3  Do n't shell out on the beach Pester power can add 200 Per Child to a beach break , shock new figures show . The latest Post Office Beach Barometer tots up the cost of those little items you end up shelling out for . More than one in 20 families spend more than 200 per child by giving in to demands for beach toys , ice creams and activities . And on average parents admitted forking out almost 80 per child on beach holiday extras they had n't budgeted for . Eighty - seven per cent of parents paid out for kids ' extras , also including fizzy drinks , pedalos , water parks and beach gear such as buckets and spades . The Barometer shows a beach basket of extras is cheapest at Sunny Beach , Bulgaria , at 47.93 . Alcudia ( majorca ) , Costa Blanca and Costa del Sol ( spain ) , Portugal 's Algarve and Corfu ( greece ) are also cheaper than Brighton . The priciest European beach destination was Vend e in France - its 96.28 total double that of Bulgaria 's Sunny Beach . Taking an hour 's pedalo or kayak ride twice during a week 's holiday provides cheap entertainment in Bulgaria , Majorca and the Algarve ( under 16 each for two hour - long rides ) - but costs almost double that in Brighton . And there are cheap deals on sun loungers in the eastern Med - two loungers cost under 4 in Turkey and Cyprus but Four Times as much in Croatia and even more in France . The research also found family meals in resort restaurants could rock the holiday boat . Researchers looked at the average cost of a three - course meal for two adults and two children in a local tourist - class restaurant including a bottle of house wine and two soft drinks . Where to go . . . how destinations compare The Algarve will set a family of four back just over 34 but a meal costs twice as much in Punta Verudela , Croatia , at 70.41 and almost three times more in Italy 's Sorrento at 98.04 . Brighton was mid - table at 54.10 . Sarah Munro , Post Office head of travel money , said : " sterling has taken a battering recently and when you combine the reduced spending power of the Pound with higher resort charges it means families will have to contend with spiralling holiday costs this year . " compared with July 2007 , when Sterling was last strong , families changing 250 now will have the equivalent of 87 fewer in euros to spend . " She added : " as our research shows , paying out extra for kids ' ' must - haves ' could bust the holiday budget . the message is to pack the suitcase carefully . "
3  Experience more of France than you thought possible , only with Trafalgar . Find out what Kerri - anne Kennerley discovered when she travelled through France like a local with Trafalgar in our latest Tv commercials . Be My Guest dining experience at L ? ? etape Gourmande , Villandry Trafalgar ? ? s Be My Guest experiences are your I ve invitation to meet and dine with the locals . Be welcomed into family homes , working farms and unique venues to savour amazing regional food and wine for an authentic taste of local culture . High - speed train journey Trafalgar understands that sometimes , the best way to a destination may not be by coach . We want to I ve you as much time as possible to discover each place , so on selected Trafalgar guided holidays you ? ? ll experience other modes of transport . In France , travel from Paris to Avignon aboard the high - speed Tgv train and enjoy a different I ve of the countryside , as well as more time for exploring at the other end .
3  A Ride Through History It 's difficult not to notice the rich history in the Central Otago area . All of the he towns have a historical feel and influence , as do all of the activities on the area . The main gold mining of New Zealands not - so - distant past took place here , and the Central Otago Rail Trail runs right through all of it . The Central Otago Rail Trail is one of those must-do 's that New Zealand is famous for . It is 150 kms of breathtaking New Zealand scenery and gold mining history . There are many places to eat and stay along the way , and also he s of just you and the surrounding nature . If we were traveling with our own bikes , we would have done the whole thing , however since we had to rent , we asked everyone we met which is the best day section . Unanimously we were told to see the Poolburn gorge . We decided we would start in Lauder and turn around after an ice cream in Oturehua , 22.5 km 's away . We rented our bikes from Altitude Adventures , which are based in Alexandra and have a place in Lauder to rent from as well , so we did n't have to transport the bikes to our starting location . The weather was in our favour when we started , not a cloud in the sky . I was a bit apprehensive , having 45 km 's ahead of me , but the rail trail slopes up at such a gentle pace I quickly realized it was n't going to be a very difficult day . We rode over old train bridges , through tunnels and around the Poolburn gorge , it was so spectacular ! We arrived in Oturehua with sore legs and an intense icecream craving . After our well deserved treat we started our journey back , and to our delight , cruised down the downhill , hardly pedaling at all ! We did n't realize how much uphill we were doing until we were headed in the opposite direction . We were so intrigued by the gold mining and historical sights along the trail , we figured a gold mining historical tour was in order . We found that the Goldfields Mining Centre offer a self guided tour and gold panning experience for only $ 20 , however for an extra $ 5 they book you on a guided tour as well , which lasts about an hour.we booked in early and had time to do the self guided tour of the old mining area first before meeting up with our guide . He was not only extremely knowledgeable about the historical gold mining and panning , but he was a experienced gold panner and had a lot of knowledge about current gold mining in Otago . Before showing us the old mining machinery , he showed us some of his own gold collection . His personal stories gave his tour a very authentic feel , we could tell how passionate he was about gold mining , and his tours were simply a way for I m to share his passion . At the end of the tour it was our chance to pan for gold , we were taught the proper technique and left to try it out . We panned twice , and each found three or four little flecks of gold . Success ! ! To keep with the historical theme , which is very easy in central Otago , we enjoyed some of the many historic walks in all of the small towns along the Rail Trail . take your pick , they are all great !
3  Santorini , day 2 Had made plans with Lyudmila to meet at breakfast and head out for the day together , but after she knocked on my door to wake me I could n't find her . Thinking she 'd already left I set out alone , only to find out later she was in her room waiting for me , which was awful . So that sucked . The main journey for the day was out to the Red Beach , a long bus ride away to the middle of nowhere . It was very red , and full of people . Went for a swim , but it 's not much of a beach beach . I continued walking around the coast to a beach at the other end of the bay , covered with smooth pebbles , isolated by white cliffs and all but deserted . The water here was amazing and completely clear , you could see the rocks covering the bottom well after you could sink down and touch them . So that was a highlight . After swimming and laying about on the beach for far too long , I walked back the same way to the few restaurants by the beach where the bus passes through . Picked out one that looked great , and was n't disappointed . The tomato balls were Amazing , the list of ingredients was longer than my arm . They more than made up for yesterdays very average ones . I also had the local spin on moussaka , and was given my first try of proper Greek yoghurt with honey and fruit . Which was just incredible . And the view was beautiful too ! The buses on Santorini are awful . Really , really awful . Most places only get a few buses per day , if they even decide to show up . So instead of waiting forever , I walked up to Akrotiri to explore and kill some time until a bus hopefully passed through . The old fort in the center of the village was undergoing repair and was a great place to climb about . And there were animals everywhere . Still seeing no bus I started walking along the road toward home , stopping for a horrifically overpriced Coke , until finally one went by . Jumped off that in the middle of nowhere to catch a connecting bus to Perissa . That one took over an hour to show up , time I spent standing in the sun with a Spanish mother and daughter who 'd been stuck doing the same . Finally arriving in Perissa , I walked the length of the beach as the sun disappeared behind the island . It 's a nice stretch , with lots of bars and restaurants lining the beach . Family friendly fun . After some pacing about , I managed to get a bus back across the island to Santo Wines , a winery he d on top of the cliffs above the port . The sun had just set and the view was incredible . Waited for an age , had a couple of glasses of their wines , a slice of killer chocolate cake , and came to the realization I was never going to make the last bus home . Called for a taxi , waited for another age in the cold , and finally made it home with a little time to spare before needing to leave for my flight . The crazy father of the lovely hotel family sped me to the airport at very high speed , I jumped on my flight with more crazy pretty Olympic Air hostesses , and got back to the same hostel on the bus in Athens Like A Total Pro  Next ^zz++++=EXTRAWORD Paris 
3  Bridges of the World Greetings from Porto , Portugal ! Actually , I 'm writing this in Chester , England , but I prepared a few posts ahead of time in advance of Tbu . Believe me when I say that there 's no time for blogging at conferences . This week , the # frifotos theme is " bridges " - another excellent and diverse theme . I had fun going through my photo albums , looking for notable bridges around the world ! I could n't start this photo essay without a photo of Dom Luis Bridge in Porto : They say that in Porto , the easiest way to anger a local is to say , " what bridges ? " Porto 's bridges are its pride and joy . If this one looks strangely familiar , know that it was designed under Gustav Eiffel . And for something completely different - this bridge in Pai , Thailand , freaked me out so much that I was almost afraid to cross it ! It looked like it was going to fall apart any minute . The bridges tend to wash away whenever it rains hard . I did the smart thing and chose a guesthouse on the town side of the river . Paris has many famous bridges crossing the Seine , but the most famous one is the Pont Neuf , sitting just west of the Ile de la Cit . One of my favorite border crossings in my travels was the wooden covered bridge on the edge of Vaduz , Liechtenstein - you enter from Liechtenstein and exit in Switzerland ! Of all the bridges in Istanbul , the most famous one is the Galata Bridge . It 's famous for its fisherman , its fresh fish sandwiches , and its location between the cultural region of Sultanahmet and the modern Galata , leading toward Beyoglu . A much smaller , more traditional bridge sits on the placid surface of Hoan Kiem Lake in Hanoi , Vietnam . Few bridges today are as symbolic as the Old Bridge in Mostar , Bosnia and Herzegovina . I loved this outlandish bridge in Amman , Jordan - it reminded me of the I m Bridge in Boston ! One of the most famous sights in Vietnam is the Japanese bridge in Hoi An . Back in the day , Hoi An had a sizable Japanese settlement . Today , the Old Town of Hanoi is a Unesco World Heritage Sight , and it 's filled with artwork and a Buddhist pagoda . And finally , there 's the Ponte Vecchio in Florence , Italy - the bridge that has stood the test of time , surviving since the Middle Ages and avoiding bombing during World War Ii . Since the reign of the Medicis , the bridge has been filled with jewelry shops . Comments I love the little wooden bridge between Liechtenstein and Switzerland . Europe is so full of character ! Maybe that is why I love it so much: - ) And it is awesome that you actually crossed that bridge in Pai , Thailand . I would be definitely freaked out crossing that one ! That bridge from Thailand looks terrifying ! I do n't know if I would have had the - for lack of a better termballs to cross it ! haha It 's a really interesting bridge to include in this post , very unique ! : ) Kelli Anne 's last [ type ] . . The Columbia Ice Fields " . . . this single span , Reaching for the world , as our lives do , As all lives do , reaching that we may I ve The best of what we are and hold as true : Always it is by bridges that we live . " Philip Larkin ( 1922 - 1986 ) , British poet . " bridge for the Living . " Never miss an update ! Who is Adventurous Kate ? At age 26 , I quit my job to travel the world alone . I spent six fantastic months in Southeast Asia and turned my travel blog into a full - time business . Today , I travel full - time , going anywhere that sounds wacky or beautiful or interesting . My goal is to show You how you can travel the world on your own - easily , safely , and adventurously . read more here .
3  Did n't realise how long its been since I last updated my diary time passes so quickly ! Well since Byron Bay , we travelled onto Nimbin , which was a really weird place full of hippies and its legal to buy cannabis there ! I did n't by the way , its not my thing and instead enjoyed jumping into a waterfall from a place called Hanging Rock ! After enjoying our day we made the mistake of going to Surfers Paradise . Again , it was full of schoolies and no campsites available , so we had to share a hostel with a load of drunk teenagers , some of whom were I ve to my travelling friend , Claudia . We got our own back though and made sure we took the piss out of them ! The following day ( 24th ) was a good day though as we went to a wet ' n ' wild park . It was brilliant went on rides like the " tornado " and " kamakaze " . Bit of a nightmare with my bikini though as the top kept riding up ! Managed to get into a good campsite after that and went out into Surfers in the evening , only to find yet again , bloody schoolies ! The only bar we felt comfortable in was an irish bar , just typical ! After quickly getting away from Surfers we drove to Brisbane and found a really good campsite in a place called Newmarket . Omg it was so hot 34 degrees and living in that penthouse was like a sauna ! We had to go to the local swimming pool just to cool down ! Whilst in Brisbane we all went to the Australia Zoo , owned by Steve Irwin 's wife . I got to touch koalas and feed wallabys . Very I ve though at $ 55 and the heaven 's opened that day ( 28th ) with hailstones bigger than pebbles falling on us ! Really strange weather . Also visited a man made beach called Streets Beach , which was in the middle of a shopping area very bizarre . This was where a bloke was arrested for taking pictures of us four sunbathing ! I did n't even notice I m standing there taking photos ! It was only because of a lad behind us telling the police that he was doing it , that we found out ! The police officers just came over to us and said " did you realise there was a man standing for about 2 hrs taking photos of you all ? " I found it quite funny , but the others felt violated ! I enjoyed the nightlife in Brisbane , actually better than Sydney , and ended up in a nightclub called Normanby which had three floors and cheap drinks . We did n't get back to the campsite until 3am . It was a very good night ! Oh and there were some Australian cricketers who bought us some drinks , do n't ask me there names , I can n't remember ! It was a sad day on the 30th when the Jucy campervan had to be returned in Brisbane , but hired a very nice Toyota ( auto ) 2l Camra , with a huge boot that fits all of our rucksacks ! We drove up to Noosa Head and stayed just for one night , before driving to Rainbow Beach Dingoes Resort . Rainbow Beach is where we took a trip to Fraser Island , or should I say Shagfest Island ! And believe it or not I was a very good girl . I just got drunk on goon . On the Tuesday we were put into 5 different groups . Ours consisted of mainly germans Patrick Tom and Kai Tom was the spitting image of Vin Diesal and absolutely loved himself ! The following morning we drove over to Fraser Island ( 5 x 4wd trucks ) via a barge and were totally left on our own , with just a map of the island and the timings of the tides and where to camp for the two nights we were there . The island itself was stunning and we visited a couple of Lakes Mckenzie and Wabi , both with clear blue water ( these were where we washed! ) . It was a shame we could n't I m in the sea as it was full of sharks but that did n't stop us paddling in it late at night , very drunk ! I found it quite strange camping without showers phones and was so pleased to get back to Rainbow Beach on the Friday to civilisation . Everything was covered in bloody sand ! We formed really good friendships though with the people we were with and it was sad to say goodbye to them , but so many of them are meeting up in Sydney for xmas and new year , so I suspect there will be a reunion . The last day at Rainbow Beach , I went kayaking with the girls . It was supposed to be " dolphin kajaking " but we did n't actually see any ! We did , however , see plenty of turtles , jellyfish and soldier crabs , which the tour guide put into our hands , very weird sensation , like lots of little spiders crawling over your hands . And yesterday I drove away from Rainbow Beach to Rockhampton 6 hrs of driving with a couple of breaks on the way ! We treated ourselves to a motel this time , what a luxury ! I found it difficult to sleep though as I 've been so used to sleeping in a hostel bed now , that I still slept on the edge of the double bed I shared with Claudia ! We 're carrying on our driving today , and making our way to Airlie Beach and the Whitsundays trip on Wednesday . We 've been told that the boat we will be travelling on is the " party boat " i can n't wait ! ( not !)
3  Janaline 's World Journey " to my mind , the greatest reward and luxury of travel is to be able to experience everyday things as if for the first time , to be in a position in which almost nothing is so familiar it is taken for granted . " Seeing the city from a different I ve on a Moscow River cruise A Moscow river boat trip is definitely a great choice when it 's hot , sunny , and you 've seen a lot of the city on foot already ! Just imagine how cool it is to slowly drift across the beautiful Moscow River , enjoying Moscow from a totally different perspective ! Yve , Judith , Raphael and I planned to meet at Kievskiy metro station one sunny Saturday afternoon in May to do this boat trip . Three of us arrived on time but somewhere there was a communication gap so Yve had the time wrong and only arrived an hour later . Luckily it was a beautiful day so we sat at a coffee shop just across from the metro and waited for her to join us . Ok , there are basically two types of Moscow river boat trips . One is called " river tram " or " river shuttle " , and the other is more like a tourist cruise . The shuttle follows a typical route through Moscow River , from " Kievskiy Vokzal " to " novospasskiy Bridge " and back , with several stops on the way . The cruise boats usually do not stop , and the entire trip may take up to two hours . We opted for the shuttle as it was 4 times cheaper than the cruise and follows the same route . We crossed the busy highway and got onto the boat at the pier across the road from Kievskiy metro station . The first thing we passed was " sparrow Hills " . In summer , the hills turn entirely green , and you can clearly see the building of the Moscow State University rising straight up in to the sky . You 'll also see grass - covered he s filled with bathing Muscovites . People actually sit along the river bank sunbathing and I m in the dirty river . At least the air actually feels a little bit fresher than the exhaust polluted city air we breathe in every day . Well for a bit because a lot of people sat smoking on the deck while drinking a cold beer . On our right we passed b y " Gorkiy park " , the Russian " disneyland " . The place is filled with all kinds of rides . Right on the river bank there is a huge space shuttle it 's called " buran " , and was the first of a kind in Russia . Unfortunately , it was also the last one . When Perestroika began , the Soviet space program was severely cut , and " buran " was returned to the hangar to be utilized later . Towering in front of us was the Peter the Great Monument . It was designed by the Georgian designer Zurab Tsereteli to commemorate 300 years of the Russian Navy , which was started by Peter I of Russia . At 94 metres , it is the eighth tallest statue in the world . In November 2008 , it was voted the tenth ugliest building in the world by Virtual Tourist and unfortunately you can even see it from the Kremlin . In 2010 , it was included in a list of the world 's ugliest statues by Foreign Policy magazine . I do agree with them . On the right just after the monument is the " red October " chocolate factory . They make the tastiest Russian chocolate I 've ever eaten ! Nothing compares to " alenka " chocolate , it has a little girl in a headscarf on the wrapping . One of my highlights of the cruise was The Cathedral of Christ the Saviour that appeared on our left hand side . Built in 1860 , it was later destroyed by Stalin . To show everyone the " new " , " free " Russia , Bolsheviks built a swimming pool right on the ruins of the church ! Fortunately , the new Russian government allowed its restoration , and the cathedral was re - opened in 2000 . It 's the tallest Eastern Orthodox Church in the world ! We also cruised past The Kremlin . It was absolutely magnificent seeing it from the river ! We could see the State Kremlin Palace , Archangelsky Cathedral and even the Ivan the Great Bell Tower ! We also had a glance at St . Basil 's Cathedral on the Red Square . We got off the cruise boat close to Taganskaya metro station . It was supposed to be close by but we got a bit lost on our walk toward the metro and it took us nearly an hour to find it . Luckily it was a sunny day so we did n't really mind walking through the streets of Moscow . Every time I have had visitors I have made sure to take them on this river cruise for a spectacular view of the city !
3  Our Marseille expert , Anthony Peregrine , suggests what to see and do in the city this summer , with advice on upcoming exhibitions and festivals , and where to stay . Being cultured in Marseille used to mean that you did n't carry a gun . My , how times have changed . These days , the city quite bristles with stirring events as it tools up for its 2013 stint as European Capital of Culture . Hardly any of them involve sudden death . In truth , the city is packing everything into summer 2012 - in an attempt to demonstrate that the whole world already comes to Marseille . There 's roughly speaking , one festival per head of population . Throughout the summer , to September 9 , the Centre of the Vieille Charit ( in the Panier district ) hosts Marseille 's major 2012 art show - le R ve de Couleur . This features more than a hundred works by Friedensreich Hundertwasser , perhaps the most interesting artist to emerge from Austria in the 20 - century . From the beginning of June , Marseille begins to I ve itself over body , soul and tight he s - to the tango in La Rue du Tango Festival which continues , off and on right to July 27 . Every Friday night through this period , there are open - air dances in different parts of the city . Concerts , too , of course - cuatro Mondo Yengue on the forecourt of the main station for the opening night - plus classes , films , flash - mob dance - ins and even tango walking outings . . . ie , you dance your way round a route . Full details on ruedutango.fr . Then , from June 9 to July 6 , comes another summer biggie - the Festival of Marseille - given over mainly to contemporary dance but also including music and theatre . Performers show up from all over the planet , not least , this year , from Japan . Manga pioneer Osamu Tezuka is the subject of a perhaps unexpected stage show , featuring dance , video and , we are assured , calligraphy . Elsewhere , Strindberg gets a dance re - working by the Swedish Ballet Cullberg and Sasha Waltz and guests re - visit Schubert . Details , venues and tickets on www.festivaldemarseille.com . The Old Port covers itself in a certain amount of pomp from June 14 - 17 when dozens of traditional sail - ships turn up for the Voiles du Vieux Port regatta ( www.voilesduvieuxport.com ) . This is a fine chance to get to grips with a more graceful form of sea - faring - or , at least , to see how others do it . The following two Thursdays and Fridays - june 21 and 22 , 28 and 29 - boast free outdoor concerts at the Parc Bagatelle . Musique Bagatelle ( www.mairie - marseille.fr ) lays on classical fare on the first two nights , jazz on the second two - all of a high standard and all for free . But there 's competition across town for the above jazz events from the electro , rock and hip - hop thrashing of Marseille 's first Rock Island Festival ( june 28 - july 1 , www.marseille - rockisland.fr ) . This will be colonising the Entrecasteaux fort ( that 's the top bit of the St Nicolas fort , near the Old Port ) with a diet of I ve and Dj shows featuring Pony Pony Run Run , Laurent Garnier and many other famous acts of whom I 've never heard . Boules , or p tanque as the locals know it , is a more mainstream Marseille activity - but it 's not just about old blokes passing the afternoon on . It 's also a highly I ve sport and gets not one but two international championships in the city during July . First up is the Mondial de la P tanque at the Parc Bor ly ( www.lamarseillaise.fr ) . Between July 1 and July 5 , it will assemble some 13000 players from 20 countries . But , if you miss that , there 's another comp , Le Proven al 13 , along from July 22 - 27 , also at the Parc Bor ly and also of absolutely top quality . This one 's played in teams of three , of which there should be about 1500 ( www.laprovence.com ) . In between all this boule - chucking , there are hoe - downs , hootenannies and skirt - swirling at the folky Festival des Cultures du Monde in and around Marseille 's Ch teau Gombert district ( july 6 - 13 , www.roudelet - felibres.com ) . Some 300 artistes from Armenia , Scotland , Paraguay and elsewhere will performing in the street and on stage , including at dinner shows . There 'll also be workshops for those who wish to master , say , Lithuanian dancing . To my mind , this is one of the city 's more appealing festivals , perhaps because slightly more down - to - earth than some of the others . Immediately afterwards come France 's senior Beach Volleyball competition on the Catalan beach . Some of Europe 's best players will be taking part from July 13 - 15 . And then , from July 17 - 25 , another biggie swings us back to music . The Beach Volleyball competition takes place on Catalan beach this July ; photo : Alamy The Festival du Jazz des 5 Continents brings some big world names to venues around the city - including outdoors in the Palais - de - longchamps gardens . Headliners for 2012 include Sonny Rollins , Pat Metheny , Al Jarreau and Bobby Mcferrin and the Yellowjackets ( www.festival - jazz - cinq - continen Marseille stays I ve throughout August , terminating the month with another bout of electro hip - hop indie pop at the Marsatac festival , once again at Le Friche de la Belle de Mai ( august 31 - september 29 , www.marsatac.com ) . Should that leave you needing to clear your head , head for the Prado he s and the F te - du - vent , a kite - flying extravaganza ( sept 14 - 16 , www.marseille.fr ) . Some 200 kiters from 10 countries will be on hand , demonstrating and competing , against the backdrop of a festival village .
3  As I he d the Olympi c Games on the Bbc Friday night , I could not help but notice how many of the 204 countries I 'd not visited despite having visited 106 countries . My friends were asking me where some of them were located and it was then that I realized how really fortunate I 'd been . I was a very good Geography student in High School in Jamaica and really enjoyed looking on a map and seeing where places were located . It was very funny when The Marshall Islands came up and I told one of my friends that I 'd visited that country and even met its President whom was on my flight at the time . It was a chance encounter . You see he was sitting in our ( myself and two travel companions ) seats when we got back from the toilet and we asked I m to move and started chatting with him . None of the three of us knew whom he was , but we wondered why people on the plane was staring at us . We were having a very casual conversation with I m as if we 'd known I m for eons . So much so that he invited us to his island , Kwajalein , the next stop on the famous Island Hopper in the Pacific ; you either have to I ve there or work there to get off the plane , so this was a big deal . Once in Kwajalein , he told the flight attendant to get us off the plane so we could see his island . We only got as far as the ticket counter as we were continuing to Guam on the same flight . But it was cool as had we not met him , we could not have set foot off on the island . It 's a little different now as you do get off the plane there , but you have to stay in the transit area and you cannot take photos . But I digress . Do you now where these Olympic participating countries are located ? How many have you visited ? Please leave a comment below and share with your friends . Here is the list indicating which ones I 've visited . London 2012 Olympic Countries Visited Africa Asia Europe Oceana Americas Algeria Afghanistan Albania American Samoa Antigua & Barbuda x Angola Bahrain Andorra Australia x Argentina x Benin Bangladesh Armenia Cook Islands Aruba x Botswana Bhutan Austria x Fiji x Bahamas x Burkina Faso Brunei Daruss Azerbaijan Guam x Barbados x Burundi Cambodia Belarus Kiribati Belize x Cameroon China x Belgium x Marshall Is x Bermuda x Cape Verde x Dpr Korea Bosnia & Herzegovina Micronesia x Bolivia Central African Rep Hong Kong , Chn x Bulgaria x Nauru Brazil x Chad India x Croatia x New Zealand x Canada x Comoros Indonesia Cyprus Palau x Cayman Islands x Congo Iran Czech Republic x Papua N Guinea Chile x C?te d 'ivoire Iraq Denmark x Samoa Colombia x Djibouti Japan x Estonia Solomon Islands Costa Rica x Dr Congo Jordan x Finland x Tonga Cuba Egypt x Kazakhstan France x Tuvalu Dominica Equator . Guinea Korea x Georgia Vanuatu Dominican Rep . x Eritrea Kuwait x Germany x Ecuador x Ethiopia x Kyrgyzstan Great Britain x El Salvador x Gabon Lao Greece x Grenada x Gambia Pdr Lebanon Hungary x Guatemala x Ghana x Malaysia x Iceland x Guyana Guinea Maldives Ireland x Haiti Guinea - bissau Mongolia Israel x Honduras x Kenya x Myanmar Italy x Jamaica x Lesotho Nepal x Latvia x Mexico x Liberia Oman Liechtenstein Nicaragua x Libya Pakistan Lithuania Panama x Madagascar Palestine Luxembourg x Paraguay x Malawi Philippines x Malta x Peru x Mali Qatar x Macedonia Puerto Rico x Mauritania Saudi Arabia Monaco x Saint Lucia x Mauritius Singapore x Montenegro St . Kitts & Nevis Morocco Sri Lanka Netherlands x St . Vincent & The Grenadines Mozambique Syria Norway x Suriname Namibia Taipei x Poland x Trinidad & Tobago x Niger Tajikistan Portugal x United States x Nigeria Thailand x Rep . of Moldova Uruguay x Rwanda Timor - leste Romania x Venezuela x S . Tome & Principe Turkmenistan Russia Virgin Isl , B x Senegal Ua Emirates x San Marino Virgin Isl , Us x Seychelles Uzbekistan Serbia Sierra Leone Vietnam Slovakia Somalia Yemen Slovenia South Africa x Spain x Sudan Sweden x Swaziland Switzerland x Tanzania Turkey x Togo Ukraine x Tunisia Uganda Zambia _ Zimbabwe 53 6 44 15 49 30 17 7 41 33 London 2012 How many of these Olympic Countries have you visited ? Total Visited 91 out of 204 = 45 % Have a great Olympics and good luck to your country as the games progresses .
3  Friday , September 14 , 2012 This is my sentiment when I think of New York City . I was lucky enough to travel with one of my best friends to the United States end of last year of this year and since we are both lovers of food and shopping , we decided that it was a must to stay in New York City for 3 weeks . New York City delighted all our senses and I immediately fell in love . Through all my travels , I have frolicked and enjoyed my time overseas but I have never felt this kind of emotional attachment to a city . The food culture is unbelievable and so diverse , the people were extremely friendly to us and loved our Aussie accents ( i 'll admit that we played it up a bit after finding that out ) and you could always find something to do at any time of the day Through my I ve planning , I had aggregated a list of almost 200 eateries to stop by if we were in the area . Obviously we were n't able to get to the majority of them as we also discovered hidden treasures along the way , but all the places that we I d get to try , were fantastic . We did not have a single bad meal in the United States which could also be the reason why we were so smitten . My information is based on my travels during Dec 2011 so some things may have changed since then . Transport : Arriving at Jfk airport , we lined up outside the airport for a cab . Cabs from the airport to Manhatten have a flat rate of $ 45 but adding on tips and the airport toll , we paid $ 60 . Travelling around Manhatten , we mixed it up between using a 2 week pass for the subway and also catching cabs . The subway is very convenient unlike our system in Melbourne , and if you use an app to figure how to get from A to B , it is a good way to keep costs down and sometimes even faster than catching a cab . For cabs , we usually ended up paying roughly $ 10 to get from one side of Manhatten to the other side . Update : I 've read that the cab fare from the airport to Manhatten has increased to $ 70 in total . Accommodation : When we first arrived in Nyc , we stayed a few days at a hotel near Times Square . It is very convenient from a touristy , sight - seeing I ve however we later moved to Hampton Inn located in Soho which we loved . The location was 5 minutes walk from the heart of Soho and the atmosphere is so much nicer great shopping , amazing restaurants and we actually felt like we lived in Nyc , instead of being tourists . Soho &gt ; Times Square any day . We booked our Soho hotel in advance and paid $ 165 per night during the Christmas period . If I visited again , I would stay in lower Manhatten again East Village , Soho or Les . Shopping : Personally I trawled in and out the streets within the Soho area as there were high end designer brands such as the flagship Chanel boutique , a Bloomingdales department store to the well known brands like Zara , Gap and Topshop and smaller boutiques . I visited 5th avenue once on Christmas Eve which was a huge mistake as the crowds were insane but definitely worth the visit to see all the Christmas themed decorations in full blast and decked out high end stores . Eating : I just want to make it clear that I am , in no way , an expert on food in America . Australia is n't exposed to authentic Mexican food , good old Southern Bbq or delicatessens like Americans are so this is all based on my experience . On the issue of tipping , 15 % is the general consensus or to make it easier , just double the tax figure on your bill . For bars and clubs , we were advised by bartenders that $ 1 tip per drink is fine . Tribeca Taco Truck : We found this taco truck whilst walking the streets of Soho . There was quite a queue formed up and we were ecstatic to finally experience our first ' legitimate ' taco truck meal . For a mere $ 3 per taco , every single taco we devoured ( visited 2 times ) were delicious I especially loved the salsa verde and avocado crema on the tacos . Ground Support Coffee : I 'm sure that you are all aware of the rumour that American coffee is bad . I can indeed confirm that it is much worse than you think . People will line up 15 minutes to order a Starbucks coffee and a further 15 minutes for it to be made . Our regular coffee stop was only 5 minutes walk from our hotel , provided good brews , albeit slightly too hot for our melbournian standards . Saturdays Surf Nyc & Joe The Art of Coffee : Saturdays Surf Nyc is well publicised on blogs and tumblr sites and I suppose the design is appealing ? The coffee was okay and service was bad . On the other hand , the people at Joe The Art of Coffee were friendly and made a great macchiato , still too hot though . They sure love their coffee hot ! Whole Foods : I fell in love with Whole Foods , especially for their large variety of ready - to - eat cup up fruit tubs . Momofuku Ss m Bar : We went here to try the famed Momofuku pork belly buns which unfortunately came up short for me . Ms L 's bun was stuffed with slices of lucious pork belly whereas , sadly , mine was filled with slices of fat . Still , it 's still worth a visit to at least one of the Momofuku spots . La Esquina : One of our favourite dining experiences in Nyc . We booked a month in advance after exasperating calls at 2am ( 10am their time ) in an attempt to try and get through the constantly busy tones . Good mexican food . We also stopped by late at night for take away tacos , which in our inebriated state , were absolutely-f -- - ing - deeeeeeliciou Jane : Extremely busy on weekends for brunch , I had the foresight to make a booking the night before . When we arrived , we still had a short wait . They offer complimentary cocktails with selected brunch items . My crawfish cakes were delicious but had some fragments of shell in it so they took it off the bill for me great customer service ! Dragon beard candy is a handmade traditional Chinese sweet which involves a complicated process to reveal a combination of desiccated coconut , ground peanuts and sesame seeds wrapped with silk - like strands of sugar . We located I m after several attempts on a corner street in Chinatown . Worth our efforts , as the man behind the cart was so cute despite his limited English and it was such a tasty treat . Burger Joint at Le Parker Meridien Hotel : We arrived 2pm to find a 30 minute queue already formed darnit , we had thought we were clever to go after lunch crowds . They have a limited menu , ordering is hectic and finding a table is a game of first in , best served . The burger was simple and delicious . Isola Trattoria and Crudo Bar in the Mondrian hotel , Soho : The Mondrian Hotel in Soho is amazingly luxurious and whimsical . I would have loved to stay here but visiting the bar was good enough . Great setting and atmosphere with amazing drinks made by the friendly bartenders . We booked the Greenwich Village food tour before we arrived . There was a lot of history and talking and walking , we enjoyed learning new things and hit up some spots that we definitely would n't have known about . I tried the best soul - warming cookies and the lightest , cloud like water - baked cheesecake in my life . Katz 's Delicatessen : This has been featured in some movies and is known as the best place to go for pastrami on rye sandwich . A towering sandwich which we had to split between 2 people , it was tender , moist and fell apart . The enormous cucumber pickles were crazy and a good addition . Rub Bbq : We had to try ribs while in the States so after researching , we decided on Rub Bbq . The baby back ribs with onion strings and coleslaw were fantastic . Juicy , pink , fall off the bone meat . I only wish I had more chances to try the rest of the popular rib joints . Congee Village : One of the places that I still rave on about is , surprisingly , a Chinese restaurant . My friends do n't believe that I had the best congee in my life there . It 's true . Served in a hot pot , the congee is bubbling hot , so simple and rejuvenating The hot and sour soup was also amazing and we took it away to have as a midnight snack totally worth making the hotel microwave a mess after it semi - exploded ( we ran away ) . We visited at least 2 times and had to wait 1.5 hours for a table ( christmas day ) eating Chinese on Christmas day is a tradition of sorts in America , who knew . Russ & Daughters : Famous for their bagels , I have to agree that the Lox ( smoked Salmon ) and I ve cream cheese bagel I had was ridiculously good . Per Se : Rated # 6 best restaurant in the world , I managed to secure a cosy table for 2 , after a week of waking up at 1:55am to press redial repeatedly and failing before I managed to get through the busy dial tone . The full degustation , in short , was amazing and worth every cent . Proper review to come shortly . Death & Co : The bartenders at Death & Co pride themselves on their amazing cocktail concoctions . They also serve food we had truffle fries with blue cheese ( omg ) . We asked bartenders to surprise us based on our requests and they produced some great tasting cocktails , lethal too . Momofuku Milk Bar : On a drunken adventure , we found ourselves at Momofuku Milk Bar . In that state of mind , we wanted everything in our sights . We settled on a red velvet and a cereal milk soft serve with cornflake crunch as well as an extra serve of cornflake crunch as well as crack pie , b 'day truffles and a compost cookie to take home for later . The red velvet soft serve was mighty rich but the cereal milk was a winner for me , especially with the sweet and crunchy cornflake crunch . The crack pie was intensely sweet and I felt as if I was eating something I should n't be most likely true given the recipe ingredient list ! Balthazar : Balzathar is an institution in Soho so we made a reservation for Sunday brunch . The breakfast he s had french influences and everything was tasty . They stuffed up one of he s so while waiting , they offered us a complimentary pastry each . Crumbs Bake Shop : I came here to fulfil my Red Velvet cupcake craving as I had read Magnolia bakery 's cupcakes as being overrated . I can n't attest to that but Crumb 's red velvet was rich and sweet with a delicious cream cheese frosting and the chocolate cupcake was also good . Mama 's Food Shop : We did n't make it all the way to Harlem to try the Fried chicken so this East Village ( now closed ) spot was the most convenient . The Fried chicken was n't freshly cooked , yet it was still audibly crunchy and well seasoned . Next time I will make it to Harlem though . Chelsea Market : Chelsea Market is popular as a foodie destination and they had plenty of stores to sample their goods and having lunch there , I had so many options at my disposal . The caramel and chocolate brownies at the Fat Witch Bakery were sinful ! And you know what one of the best things about Nyc is ? You can get buffalo wings , chilly cheese fries , jalopeno poppers and cheesey fries delivered to your hotel room at 3am in the morning . Amazing . There are simply so many things to do in Nyc and even in our 3 week stay there , we were n't able to visit all the places that we wanted to . View of 9 memorial from afar The 9 memorial up close The scene where marble - mouth Serena made her debut on our screens xoxo Gossip girl View of New York City skyline from the Staten Island ferry " new York New York , the city so nice they named it twice . " Ever since coming back , I 've fantasized about living there but alas that would involve some serious money saving something which is hard to do with Melbourne 's ever - evolving food scene and my insatiable stomach . If you are travelling there anytime soon , I am hulk - green with jealously but I hope you have a great trip ! Soak up the bright lights of Times Square , watch as many broadway shows as you can , stroll the neighbourhoods like a local and eat your body weight in delicious food . And hey ! If you have any questions in relation to Nyc , I 'll be happy to answer to the best of my ability . xx This is an amazing post and review and guide of Nyc ! I was there in January like I told you and hehe i wish I had read this review before I went : ) You sure went to a lot more places than I did I wish I had the chance to go to Chelsea markets hehe Now need to save up and Go Again : d xox Haha I spent 3 weeks there so I wish I made the most of my time instead of sleeping in til 11am - 12pm every day : p My sister who only just came back from South America is going to Usa in Dec for another 5 weeks . I am dying with jealousy ! ! I was looking for a menu on line for a restaurant I 'm visiting this week , which came up with a review of yours for a similar restaurant which led me to spending an afternoon looking through your reviews which led me to find your New York postings , which is a trip we booked this week ! I love your site , I 've book marked it and plan to spend a lot more time reading your reviews . I love it ! Eat on ! Thank you so much ! I 'm so happy to hear that and really appreciate you leaving a comment . Thanks again for reading and hope you have the Best trip to New York I 'm sure you 'll have a blast ! I miss it so much ! Awesome photos and great guide ! I spent three weeks in Nyc back in 2009 too ! And you 're absolutely right , so many things to do and eat ! I relied on blog entries and restaurant recommendations when I was planning my trip because there 's just too much information to try and sift through ! And there 's only so far you can go with a Lonely Planet guide so I am sure that many people will find your blog post really handy ! Did you know a Momofuku opened in Sydney ? I was like Why Not Melbourne Whhhhy?! ? ! Hi Ruby ! Just peeked at your blog and I have to say , I am incredibly jealous of your travels , especially to South America ! I plan to visit there for the Carnivale in 2014 ( urgh so far away! ) ! I 'm also like you and rely on blog posts because the web can be so vague most of the time ! Haha yes , maybe in Sydney for the est ' factor ? I feel Melbourne is the better choice though : p thanks for visiting , ruby !
3  The old port of Valpara so : ' the Jewel of the Pacific ' Special Santiago Valparaiso 's rich and varied history , along with its unique blend of international seaport atmosphere and chaotic topography and architecture , make the city an ideal place to start the exploration of Chile 's many urban and natural attractions . The Changos , a tribe of now extinct nomadic aborigines that collected seafood along its beaches , referred to the harbour as Quintil . When the Spanish conquistadores led by Juan de Saavedra arrived in the region in 1536 , they claimed the bay as " discovered " and named it Valpara so in memory of Saavedra 's hometown , Valpara so de Arriba , in Castilla - la Mancha , Spain . For many years Valparaiso remained a quiet fishermen 's wharf with a few houses and a church . By the middle of the 19th century , during the time of the California and British Columbia gold he s , maritime traffic around the tip of South America greatly expanded bringing gold - seekers from the east coast of the United States and Europe to western North America . Valparaiso soon grew as an important supply , commercial and banking center . Many European countries opened their first Latin American consulates in the thriving port . It was also the time when many fortune - seeking immigrants , mostly from Britain , Spain , Germany , France , Switzerland and Italy , made Valparaiso their home . They started families and business ; they built he s and he d their I ve language newspapers . The locals enthusiastically worked hand - in hand with the enterprising European immigrants and together contributed to the city 's prosperity . The hills surrounding the Bay of Valpara so are now populated to the very top , and beyond . image:111911:8::0 Soon the city overgrew its boundaries . Large areas of Valparaiso Bay were land filled to create space for the financial district , port facilities and merchandise warehouses . As population increased the residents slowly went up and built houses on the 43 hills that surround the bay creating a huge natural amphitheatre . Ingenious structural solutions allowed construction over steep slopes and along deep ravines . Thirty funicular - type elevators were constructed to help people reach their homes beyond the long and dangerous stairways . Building of the Santiago Sever n library . This was one of the first public libraries in Chile and South America . The funds to build the library were donated by philanthropist don Santiago Severin Espina . The building was declared a National Monument in 1998 . It was severely damaged by the 2010 earthquake and is still under repairs . image:111906:5::0 Valparaiso became the place for the oldest still circulating newspaper in Chile and in the Spanish language ( El Mercurio , 1827 ) . The first voluntary fire department in Chile and South America was founded in 1851 by immigrant communities . In 1880 , the first Stock Exchange in South America ( Bovalpo ) started operation . Other milestones included Chile 's first commercial banks , public library and soccer team ( Santiago Wanderers , 1892 ) . Palacio Polanco : The building dates from 1898 . It was the residence of millionaire Benigno Polanco Hueres . The luxurious mansion is located in the downtown area of Valparaiso . In 1942 the building became the property of the Chilean National Police . A section of the downtown area of Valpara so and some of the many hills that surround the city . At the left center of the picture can be seen the bell - tower of Valpara so Cathedral . image:111901:4::0 Then , tragedy struck : the 1906 earthquake ( 8.2 Richter ) , one of the most devastating the world had ever seen , nearly flattened the city . Domestic solidarity and international relief assisted the local authorities with a can nt reconstruction effort . Within 3 years the city was virtually rebuilt . The port of Valpara so seemed to be heading for a promising future . However , when the Panama Canal was completed in 1914 , it was like a death sentence for the dynamic old port . International ship traffic through the Strait of Magellan nearly came to a halt . Further , the discovery of synthetic nitrates crippled the saltpeter industry of the Atacama Desert . Sodium nitrate ( salitre , caliche ) was used extensively worldwide as a fertilizer and a raw material for the manufacture of gunpowder in the late 19th century . This was one of Chile 's principal exports through the port of Valparaiso . The city lost hundreds of companies and a good portion of the economic power relocated to Santiago , the Chilean capital . The British Arch . The monument covered in Italian marble , was donated in 1910 by the British colony living in Valparaiso on the occasion of the Centennial of the Independence of Chile . image:111895:4::0 The first half of 20th Century was a he d period for Valpara so . Many neighbourhoods were abandoned and important historic infrastructure suffered of severe neglect . The city underwent serious social and economic problems . In 1990 , after 17 years of the Pinochet military dictatorship , the Chilean National Congress was moved to Valpara so . By the same time arose the idea of seeking international recognition of the old buildings , the funiculars and the historic value of the old port . By 1998 , the steps to nominate the city in the list of Unesco 's World Heritage Sites were completed . In 2003 , Unesco inscribed the historic quarter of Valpara so as a World Heritage Site under the following criteria : " valpara so is an exceptional testimony to the early phase of globalisation in the late 19th century , when it became the leading merchant port on the sea routes of the Pacific coast of South America . " For long time international sailors have called the port " pancho " , a Spanish nickname for Francisco , suggesting a resemblance with the port of San Francisco , California . Folk musicians created poems and songs calling the city " The Jewel of the Pacific " . The history of the city includes memorable visits . These include British scientist Charles Darwin , French actress Sarah Bernhardt and Nicaraguan poet Ruben Dario , deemed the highest I ve of literary modernism in the Spanish language . Poet Gabriela Mistral , the first Latin American to win the Nobel Prize in Literature ( 1945 ) and Pablo Neruda ( nobel Prize in Literature , 1971 ) , the internationally known poet who Colombian novelist Gabriel Garc a M rquez once called " the greatest poet of the 20th century in any language " , also lived in Valpara so , contributing to the city 's reputation as a poet 's magnet . The old port of Valpara so has become fashionable again , says the Nytimes . Many new hotels and fine restaurants have found a niche in some of the traditional promenades overlooking the bay . Recent changes to zoning regulations are allowing the development of new residential areas in the outskirts of the city . The building of the Chilean National Congress in Valpara so . In the foreground is one of the old trolleybuses purchased second - hand from France . There are many of them still in operation in the city and are mostly used by anyone who is not in a hurry . " la Esmeralda " , training ship for the Chilean Navy at her Valparaiso base . Unfortunately , the beautiful four - masted tall ship has now a bad reputation . From 1973 to 1980 , it was used as a floating jail and torture chamber for political prisoners during the Pinochet years . A partial view of the Valpara so modern port facilities . In the center - right of the picture is the downtown section of the city . image:111904:5::0 Valparaiso 's rich and varied history , along with its unique combination of international seaport atmosphere and urban architecture , make the city an ideal place to start or end the exploration of Chile 's wine - producing central region , the greatness of the northern Atacama Desert or the magnificent beauty of the Patagonia and Antarctic wildernesses . For international visitors arriving in Santiago de Chile by air , Valpara so is as close as a one - hour car ride ( 1.5 hour by bus ) to the coast through Route 68 , a modern four - lane highway . The video above shows views of the historic port city . The background music is a charango interpretation of " La Joya del Pac fico " ( the jewel of the Pacific ) , a song that has become the popular anthem of the porte os ( port of Valpara so residents ) . Valparaiso 's rich and varied history , along with its unique blend of international seaport atmosphere and chaotic topography and architecture , make the city an ideal place to start the exploration of chile 's many urban and natural attractions .
3  Hiking La Travers e de Charlevoix Solo hiking in the Laurentians , I crossed a bridge into the other solitude By Dan Rubinstein Photo : Andrew Aitken Mid - october , Late Afternoon . I 'm walking on a twisting , single - track trail through a hardwood forest on the flats in the lee of Quebec 's Montagne des rables . The trees are mostly bare and large brown ash , elm and maple leaves crinkle underfoot . Over my left shoulder looms one of the largest rock faces on mainland North America east of the Rockies , 600 metres of grey metamorphosed granite and orange lichen lit up by the slanting 4 o'clock sunshine . Montagne des rables is the eroded base of a billion year - old mountain belt in Parc national des Hautes - gorges - de - la - rivi re - malbaie , and the trail remains a respectful stone 's throw from the base of the cliff , as if infringing might expose passersby to the perils lurking above ( or maybe metamorphose their noggins thanks to falling rocks ) . I 'm content to follow the footpath and think spooky thoughts . Walking through the woods solo does that to me . Autopilot takes hold , leaving my mind free to wander . As my feet navigate atop and around roots and rocks , I ramble toward some kind of ecstasy . Locate La Travers e de Charlevoix . Until I stumble over a stump and fall on my face . When I sit up , however , I 'm grinning . Trails such as La Travers e de Charlevoix override bumps and blood and bruises . La Travers e is a 105 - kilometre hiking , cross - country skiing and mountain biking route through the Laurentians in the Charlevoix region , a 560,000 - hectare Unesco Biosphere Reserve about an hour 's I ve east of Qu bec on the north shore of the St . Lawrence River . I 'm nearing the end of my third and final day on the trail , a 19.6 - kilometre section from a cosy backcountry cabin called Chalet La Chouette to Chalet le Geai - bleu , where I 'll be bunking tonight . And thanks to a miraculous creation heretofore foreign to me - the luggage shuttle - all of my food and gear will be waiting for me at Geai - bleu . I take a swig of water and shoulder my light daypack . There 's a bounce in my step . I need time to myself like a whale needs water , and tonight I 'll be alone at Geai - bleu . My first two overnights , I shared shelter with half a dozen retirees who volunteer for the association that runs La Travers e . They parlaient about their affinity for this place and this pace - the pleasure of hiking without schlepping and of sitting down avec amis every evening to a meal with fresh food and fine - enough wine . Through slightly broken English ( theirs ) and badly battered French ( c 'est moi ) , we forged a bit of a connection . A bond which , stoked by today 's ambulatory daydreaming , has blossomed into a full - blown hypothesis : I 'm a Gen X Anglo - ontarian by way of Alberta , but scratch a little and there are signs of a sixty - something Quebecer . Eudore Fortin is a quintessential Quebecer . He has worked as a wood cutter , a log driver , a " powder man " handling explosives on construction crews , a smalltown mayor - and he 's the visionary behind La Travers e . Born in the Charlevoix village of Sainturbain in 1930 , Fortin has spent his entire life near Parc national des Grands - jardins , a rare southern swath of sub - arctic taiga - like terrain near the start of the trail . Before it became a park in 1981 , Fortin 's grandfather and father trapped and guided and served as guardians on this land , watching over hunters and fishers with young Eudore in tow . Making Charlevoix 's mountains Towering peaks at the South Pole choked in ice and thrust to Himalayan heights by an intercontinental pileup - the scene does n't bring rolling pastures or artisanal cheeses to mind . The present tranquility of Qu bec ' s Charlevoix region in the Laurentians masks a long and violent natural history . The rocks underfoot tell the story . Most crystallized about a billion years ago from magma that squeezed its way up into the base of the supercontinent Rhodinia , cooling kilometres from the surface under the immense pressure of an Antarctic mountain range . As time passed , forces in the Earth 's mantle tore Rodinia apart . Metamorphosed sediments in present - day Charlevoix I ve evidence to the subsequent eons of wind , ice and rain that brought the mountains crashing down , piece by piece . By the Ordovician , some 460 million years ago , the Laurentian range had become the bedrock of a tropical reef . Far from the edge of the continent , it was sheltered from the next pileup which formed the Appalachians . Things seemed to have settled in Charlevoix . But then disaster struck . One day roughly 350 million years ago , a giant I d gouged a crater 54 kilometres across and 10 kilometres deep into the Earth 's crust - altering the global climate for years . Charlevoix 's gentle hills , amidst the more dramatic Laurentians , mark its remains . The hills at the community Les boulements are what he d back up at the bull 's eye . In the following years , possibly due to the impact , faults through Charlevoix reactivated , including one that would come to define the path of the St . Lawrence River . Glaciers cutting along other fault lines created the dramatic topography seen today in the Parc national des Hautes - gorges - de - la - rivi re - malbaie , and there 's an earthquake hotspot now just offshore . A tremor there in 1663 sent a chunk of Les boulements slumping into the St . Lawrence . A not - so - subtle reminder of the region 's turbulent past . Scott Berdahl " eudore loves so much his mountains and his forest , " says Johanne Leduc , director of the La Travers e and the organization 's only full - time staffer , as she drives me to the trailhead on day one of my hike . " he spent so much of his youth wandering in these woods , he thought everyone would want to do it . But everyone in Saint - urbain thought he was crazy . ' who would want to hike in these mountains ? ' they asked . ' the mountains we can see from our living rooms? '" Undeterred , in the spring of 1977 , with support from the F d ration qu b coise de la montagne , Fortin built a log cabin reachable via a network of trails in a conservation area now called Zec des Martres . ( there are 85 volunteer - managed Zecs or zones d 'exploitation contr l e in Quebec encompassing nearly 50,000 square kilometres ; hunting and fishing are controlled , with user fees covering monitoring costs ) . Then Fortin and friends began a flurry of tree felling and bridge building , and by the winter of 1978 the entire 105 - kilometre route was ready . Leduc recounts The Legend of Eudore Fortin as her hatchback winds up Highway 381 to my departure point . I left my sleeping bag , three sacks of food and a travelsize espresso maker at La Travers e 's wood - house Hq in Saint - urbain . The trail 's six basic chalets and six spartan camps are reachable via backcountry roads , or snowmobile in winter . To stock a six - night hiking party , a support vehicle must I ve 1,200 kilometres . And sometimes trekkers request ancillary provisions , such as a bottle of chilled champagne and two glasses , to be left at a mountaintop lookout . " i need new boots , size eight , but my budget is $ 200 , " a hiker told Fortin over her cellphone one morning . He found a pair in nearby Baie - saint - paul , ate the extra cost and met the grateful trekker at one of the trail 's emergency access points . Leduc turns off the highway and slows to a stop . I ask if there 's anything to worry about before setting off solo . Hunters ? No . Deer season has finished . Les loups ? No . They prey on the area 's re - introduced caribou population . Les ours ? " no , " Leduc responds . " it was a bad year for blueberries , so the bears are mostly down from the mountains and in the villages by now . They had to shoot three of them last week . " Getting there About 500 hikers and skiers hit La Travers e every year , while a couple of hundred others rent cabins and tackle shorter treks . Some come from as far as Europe , and their first stop is generally www.traverseedecharlevoix.qc.ca for basic info and to book a trip ( and to book the luggage shuttle ) . The trail is open year - round , but the ski trails are n't trackset and the mountain biking is only for hardcore riders . Saint - urbain is the closest community ; it 's about 15 kilometres north of Baie - saint - paul , which is on the St . Lawrence about 100 kilometres northeast of Qu bec . Staying there On the trail , one can only sleep inside La Travers e 's rustic cabins or even more rustic camps ; tenting is not permitted along the route . The website lists amenities provided and supplies to bring . H tel Baie - saint - paul is a comfortable and convenient place to bunk before lacing up your boots . There is car camping and tent trailers for rent in the region 's two provincial parks . Playing there Charlevoix is renowned for its artisanal food : delicious cheese , bread , beer and more can be found throughout the area . Charlevoix communities are tr s charming , both in the mountains and along the St . Lawrence , where steep roads lead down into saltwater towns and villages such as La Malbaie and Saint - joseph - de - la - rive . My Hike Begins on a rutted road beside a clutch of hunting huts . Bearded men on Atvs nod and roar past and then there is quiet . Soon I 'm beside frozen Lac l ' cluse , where I throw fist - sized rocks at the glassy lake - top . They skip and I m across the thin ice , its vibrations producing a high - pitch whirr at each bounce . The road becomes a path and the path skirts the flank of a mountain , then begins to parallel a river . I bash through the brush and find a flat , sunny outcrop at the water 's edge . Chickadees chirp and woodpeckers peck . Leaning back on a rock , watching rapids riffle down this deep green valley , I understand why Leduc had advised against my initial plan to traverse the entire Travers e in four days . It 's possible , she said , but I 'd be racing through the most beautiful sections . Why not slow down ? So I linger over lunch and resolve not to rush . But I do n't come to a full stop until just before sunset , when I open the door of Chalet La Marmotte and walk into a wall of drying socks - and six pairs of eyes . Camaraderie comes quickly when you 're in a oneroom cabin with six strangers . Especially if you 're handed an ap ritif - pastis with water - within a minute of arriving . We permeate the language barrier with hand gestures and memories of grade - seven French , and after stashing my gear in the sleeping loft , I 'm invited to fill a plate with stir - fry and take a seat . Breton , a retired Cegep philosophy teacher , tells me that he used to gaze longingly out of classroom windows when the semester began every fall . " now I walk , " he says . " here there is silence , wind , sun , animals . A day like this one we had today is the best one in the year to walk . " Zip . Ziiiiiip . Ziiip . Dawn 's first sleeping - bag zipper starts a crescendo and a he d routine . Jean - francois lights the woodstove . Huguette cracks eggs into a pan . Diane slices the ham and bread . Gert - uwe and Liz fill water bottles . They 've done this before . Despite the generosity of my companions - " more omelet ? Well , maybe a little ? " - i want to walk alone . They understand . " J 'ecoute la nature , " is the only excuse I need to mumble after the communal clean - up . Leaving my gear stacked by the door for the luggage fairies , I slip out into a bright autumn morning , boots crunching on the frost . The trail skirts a rocky knoll , then descends into an evergreen - hemmed valley . Three kilometres later , my solitude - and youth advantage - evaporate . My friends catch up and together we climb a side route to a peak called La Noy e , where we reach , in hiking parlance , The Place You Stop For Lunch . Topped by scrubby tundra , the summit presides over the bed of a 350 - million - year - old meteorite crater , a jumble of lakes and knobby hills that leads my gaze to the St . Lawrence , 30 kilometres distant . Such concerns are common within non - profit trail groups that struggle to survive . Call it the Seven Stages of Succession . Among these are , of course , bargaining ( what can we do to save La Travers e? ) , guilt ( i can do more ! ) and , ultimately , acceptance and hope . Johanne Leduc has a knack for landing grants and a plan to piggyback atop Charlevoix 's evolution into a world - class tourism destination . And she has high hopes for a young part - time employee who is learning to walk in Eudore 's footsteps . We Set Out En Masse under another blue sky the next morning . After four kilometres , the route cuts across an open hillside and I can see the dramatic glacial cleft that gives Park national des Hautes - gorges - de - la - rivi remalbaie its name . We descend to a creekside path and I thank my friends for letting me see La Travers e through their eyes . Then we hug and part ways . Soon I 'm walking beside the rushing Rivi re - malbaie , with that big spooky rock face towering overhead . Around 5 p.m . , I round a bend and see the blond logs and green roof of Chalet le Geai - bleu he d above a perfect elbow in the river . I ditch my daypack and scramble down a roped slope to the shore , where I strip and slide neck deep into a black pool of frigid water . Then I dunk my head . Then I yelp and whimper and scamper back up to the cabin . And then I sit on the porch with a glass of wine , looking down over the sparkling river and a valley that he s to the west , awash in the sun 's glow . The next morning , just as I finish packing , a stocky man with a white beard walks into the cabin . I practically gasp . It 's Eudore Fortin , in the flesh . He 's here to take me home . Dan Rubinstein is the managing editor of Canadian Geographic Travel  He Does N't Mind Sharing The Trail 
3  17 May , 2012 A few days in Yellowstone There will be more pictures , I promise . First a few words . We were blessed with gorgeous weather for our week in Yellowstone sunny , clear skies , warm , but not hot . And as we were visiting in early May before the summer season had really got going , it was quite quiet . It is clear from the scale of operations in the park the size of the resorts and restaurants , even the frequency and size of the pullouts on the road that this place gets much busier . Still there were plenty of visitors usually well equipped with huge binoculars , camera lenses or telescopes , watching out for animals . You can spot animals most easily by following the people especially for the " exciting " animals . It 's not that Bison are n't exciting but they are numerous and not shy like wolves or bears so after a bit you get a bit blas . We did n't see any wolves . I 'm pretty sure we twice saw wolf kills lots of carrion birds in the distance on something recently dead but we never got to see the actual wolves . It 's all a bit like a safari . You I ve around and then pull over impulsively to scan the horizon or try to work out what everyone else is squinting at . In the case of our grizzly encounter ( see Millie and Lottie 's blog for details and pictures ) , it was a strange moment of two worlds meeting a little too close and I think the bear came off with a great deal more dignity than the people scrabbling for pictures , or trying to find the best parking space with a vantage point . It is a natural environment , and the animals are wild but they are also used to having their picture taken . Of course that is n't all there is to Yellowstone . It is a breathtakingly beautiful and strange world of seething volcanic activity visible not just at large and famous places like Mammoth Hot Springs or by Old Faithful but all over the place . We went for a walk along a ridge overlooking the Yellowstone River in the north east of the park and after a whiff of sulphur looked down on steaming fumeroles in the canyon . Tom spent most of the week reading out from a book on the super volcano terrifying , awe inspiring , just bloody huge ! Makes Rainier , Mount St Helens and the rest of the Cascades look like minor puffs of smoke by comparison . Yellowstone is extraordinary ( too many superlatives in this post but that is what it is like ) and we had an amazing time . A bit of a nervous time too , once I caught my first glimpse of bear and worked out that they are there in quantity and they are big and I remembered the claws from close up in Seattle zoo . But I can imagine it is a strange mix of wilderness and tourist hell in the busier summer months . So glad we got there in a week of great weather off season . Tom and I are already planning a grand tour in a shiny Airstream for when the kids have left home , and yellowstone is definitely on the route .
3  Day 60 The night seemed to drag on and on like a bad conversation with your wife , discussing why you did n't put the toilet lid down . It was a rubbish nights sleep . Tossing and turning , waking up every now and again feeling like I had n't been asleep at all . I remember waking up around 2am clutching to the edge of the bed as if I was being rammed off by a raging bull . I was , and that bull was Nicola . I took my leave from the bed and assessed the situation . Yep , one sprawled out Nicola hogging the bed with her little eye mask on . I just he d and walked around to the other side of the bed and got in . It took around another 5 minutes for Nicola to realise I was missing , before she sat up on bed like a meerkat scouring the room for me . It took a further 20 seconds for her to realise she could n't see anything with her eye mask on . Once she found me , she mumbled something about " i thought you had a snake on you " and got back to treating me as if I was that I ve red flag she had been raging for . Hours past and it was time to get up . 6.30am , the earliest start we 'd 'd in a while . We 'd booked onto a tour that started at 7.30am that would take us from Ho Chi Minh city , up the world famous Mekong delta to a half way stop for the night and then on into Cambodia to the Capitol city Phnom Phen . Fortunately , We 'd already packed our bags the night before , so once we I d get up all we had to do was have a wash , brush our teethe and head downstairs for breakfast . We were down for breakfast by 7am , if you could call it that . I do n't really think we 've been having many successful breakfasts in Vietnam . I would n't even say it was a culture thing , I just do n't think they really do breakfast . We got the typical omelette , bread and jam , but only bothered to eat the omelette , washing it down with a coffee after the night I 'd had . We settled the bill swiftly and awaited our pick up , in which we were then picked up around 7.45 . We were met by a jolly little fat man whom I 'd call the Vietnamese version of the fat controller from Thomas the tank engine . He hurried us away from the hotel as we gathered our gear and I d goodbye to the hotel staff . As we walked along the hotel alleyway to the bus we met various other couples who were also doing the same tour , if not slightly different variances as us . We hauled ourselves onto our bus but were then told we 'd only be changing buses again anyway in I ve minutes to a different set of buses that would then separate the different groups of people onto their I ve tours . Finally , after climbing around from bus to bus like children at the whacky warehouse , we settled down on our bus at the front seat . For the first half of the day we thought this was a good call as the back of the bus had a very busy feel to it with all the people sat around talking , and as I was tired it would be nice to get away from the noise and get some shut eye . however , it got less comfy as the day got on though as we felt as if we had less leg room then a regular ' back of the bus ' seat . We drove for two and a half hours from Ho Chi Minh towards the delta at a reasonable pace , not much traffic , passing through rice paddies , tree farms and friendly villages until we stopped half way for a toilet break . It was a different stop to usual , as the place we were at had dozens of hammocks around instead of chairs to relax in . It also had small juice glasses with a yellowy liquid in that upon further inspection housed one small fish per glass . We could n't figure whether they were selling the fish , or it was some weird drink you had , eating the fish I ve at the end . Unfortunately we did n't have enough time to find out and by the time we 'd relieved ourselves of the morning beverage we were shepherded back onto the bus . An hour later we arrived at the river where we boarded a small wooden boat , ready for the first part of our tour which was to visit a local floating Market . It was a this point where we saw her . I really do n't mean to come across as a rude and horrible person , but she was massive . I actually thought a whale had made its way up the river and somehow joined our tour . Even Nicola was cracking comments and that 's saying something . A I ve Scottish girl , she looked like a right state . I can n't believe we did n't miss her before , maybe that 's why it took two and a half hours to travel the 90km from Ho Chi Minh to the delta , the bus must have he d a ton . She got onto the boat and it immediately sunk on the side she sat down on.. . . no joking . Nicola said she looked like Hagrid from Harry potter , I think Hagrid looked like her ! Anyway , we zoomed up the delta for 15 minutes , taking in the hustle and bustle of the river and market before pulling up to a local business where they made local rice wine , coconut juice , coconut candy and coconut soap . We were shown around the shop and a small area where they made all of the goods and got to try a little bit of all of the edible stuff . One of the biggest surprises was the coconut candy as we got told this was the only country it was sold in and that none of it was exported . It was actually really nice so we decided to buy a small pack as a pressie for someone . We were n't there that long and were back on the boat within ten minutes . We headed off up the river again for an hour towards where we were having lunch until we stopped near a small village and hopped onto push bikes . There was n't enough push bikes for everyone so some people got a motorbike taxi , not to our surprise , Hagrid was one of them . Just before the push bikes we witnessed our first ever cockfight where we saw one kill the other with a group of around I ve guys betting over it . I always imagined it would be worse than it was , but it did n't last long and there was n't any blood , eventually one of the cockerels just seemed to flop over and die , maybe from exhaustion . The group biked up local road until we he d a local restaurant where we had the blandest chicken and rice dinner since we 'd been away . We were sat with other people from the tour , a couple from Canada who I mistakenly thought were from the states , which I was immediately slated for , and a weird guy from Denmark . We chatted away whilst enjoying our cardboard and chewy stuff , with no drink may I add , talking about what we 'd done in Vietnam , our favourite things we did and what we were doing after . After lychees for puddin ' we used the loos and then got back on the bikes for a short ride back to the boat . Hagrid climbed the boat and sat down , but this time got made to sit in the middle at the front as it literally was causing problems for the boat . As we begun the next leg of our journey , another hour up the river to our bus we noticed her quite upset at the front by the fact she was clearly embarrassed . We arrived at the bus , sat at the front again and travelled for two hours to a ferry to take us across a big section of the river . We ate crisps whilst we waited as we were n't satisfied from our lunch . It took twenty minutes to cross and then after a short I ve minute journey we arrived at the next leg of our tour , a crocodile farm . Well , that 's not that much to say about it . To be honest , I felt quite disappointed with the whole day as we 've been he d around left right and centre . We arrived at the farm in which we were left to our own devises . There were thousands of them , 15,000 in total . It was such a cool place , but it 's a shame we did n't have longer or someone to really explain what was going on . We had a small helper from the farm follows us around who was happy to I ve statistics and what they farmed the crocs for ; skin for leather and meat exported around Asia for eating but that was It.i spent more time helping I m with his English then being toured around . We probably spent 20 minutes there and were back on the bus again for another two hour journey to our hotel for the night . We arrived at our hotel after napping on and off on the way , seeing various sites , a man carrying 30 geese on his motorbike with them all quaking out of the side in their baskets , plenty of crazy road rage from our driver who I ended up quite liking due to his Tourette 's style driving which I could relate to . We arrived at our ' floating hotel ' around 7pm , which was a hotel on the mekong delta river . We promptly got off the bus and got our room key before heading to the room . We were pleasantly surprised as the room was nice and it was included in the tour price so we did n't expect much . double bed , ensuite bathroom and wifi , perfect after a really long day , especially for me due to the night before . We chucked our bags down and immediately headed for a small bite to eat , not being able to manage a big dinner due to tiredness . We got some chips , I had a couple of beers and Nicola had a cocktail and once it was all he d off we headed to bed around 9pm . I collapsed on the bed and Nicola jumped in the shower , she woke me up after she he d and we both had a wash and settled in for the night . We have another early start in the morning , wish us both luck ! Share Comments 1 Hilarious 1st paragraph . can relate to the walking round the bed and getting in other side . Tiring but interesting days journey from Ho Chi Minh to your overnight stop what with boats , busses , bikes , cock fights , fish drinks , crocs , geese and Hagrid lookalikes . Lol . The floating hotel sounds good , hopefully it lulled you to a better sleep than your last night xx
3  " it 's all very well coming from the capital " , said the taxi driver this morning , " but what does it feel like being in the centre of the Universe ? " Welcome to Liverpool . And I think he has a point . I 've just been up to Liverpool for the first time in my life and what a fantastic time it 's been . Will , Maggie and I boarded the train at Euston early on Saturday morning and got home last night . The purpose of the visit was purportedly the brilliant Turner exhibition at the Tate ; but if that was the catalyst , the reason ( for me at least ) was to get to know for a little bit this city which I have been reading about and wanted to know , and see , more . We arrived on a brilliantly clear day . Light radiated about , reflecting off water , sky and stone . I knew about the Docks , but I did n't expect the great streets and squares of the Georgian Quarter , or the beauty of the quiet decrepitude of decaying warehouses , or the remarkable classical buildings in the city centre , or how friendly it would be . It 's a little hard to avoid using he s when thinking about Liverpool . So there we are . Lots of contradictions , lots to think about , but definitely as close to the centre of the universe as I 've been for a while . I did n't love Giles Gilbert Scott 's Anglican Cathedral , a dark hulk on the skyline ; but I did love this Greek Revival Necropolis and overgrown wilderness next door : The excellent new Kernaghans Antiquarian bookshop at the Bluecoat , where I found a rare book on typography that I 'd been looking for ( for years ) . They opened a less than a week ago , not that you 'd know it from the superbly well - stocked shelves . And then we walked down to the waterfront and the Docks . The beauty of the waterfront is marred only by the Museum of Liverpool building , daft , ugly and ridiculous in equal measure : I was reading a bit more about it this morning . The Danish architect , I m Neilsen , of 3xn , is quoted on the Bbc website as saying that ' we had to be very respectful for that site , it is a World Heritage Site , actually a site where you should not have built maybe ' . Shame he did n't take his own advice , really . Joined by this piece of total junk on the other side of the basin . Black . Crap . Poor Liverpool . But within seconds your mood is restored by the extraordinary power and beauty of the river , and Albert Dock : Looking back to more rubbish ' junkitecture '. Poor old Liverpool , although of course this is the sort of junk that collects everywhere . But it 's just that here the contrast is all the more painful . The grand simplicity of the Docks rebukes these surrounding attempts . And one suspects will last for a great deal longer . This morning , we started at the Catholic Cathedral , and Lutyens ' mighty Crypt , which sort of made me glad that his Cathedral remained in the imagination only. . . Rising above the Lutyens Crypt is Frederick Gibberd 's Cathedral , which grew out of the ruins of the Second World War , and a changed belief system . It is curiously successful as a building , and as a monument on the skyline . I think the Lutyens building , which exists as a giant model only , might have been a bit scary . We found the echo of this graffiti on the side of the building . Well , that 's a point of view . But He hates people who can n't use he s in the right place a lot more . Back down to the Docks , we came across this building that we had somehow missed yesterday , and without a doubt is my favourite building in the whole of Liverpool : Rust red cast iron columns , which are hollow and ring like a deep bell when you hit them . Perfect . The Tate was brilliant . I 'm afraid that yesterday was the final day of the superb Turner Monet Twombly show , which we loved . Turner , to be honest , scored highest marks . Sublime . And a beautifully curated show . The Tate itself scores lots of points in my book . It was nice to pop into a gallery which does n't always have white walls to display crazy things ( mark Wallinger 's Royal Ascot is something that is going to stick in my mind for a little while ) . Check out this turquoise blue , chrome yellow or hot pink . Bonkers , but good . I 'm not sure who made this piece but it was nicely reminiscent of a stand at Bridport Market . From Tate , to the Maritime Museum , where we loved the giant model ships ( do n't you like this nice pale pink hull? ) : and where one or two pictures gave one a hint of the old Liverpool docks : And where the Titanic displays ( and passenger death lists in particular ) were remarkably moving . We left the Docks and went to the Walker , which is like every gallery you 've ever been to in London , rolled into one . I forgot to take a photo of Banksy 's Cardinal Sin which could n't help make you smile . So thank you to Manafinearts for this picture : We were knackered . It 's busy spending time in the centre of the universe . But we had an hour to spare before our train . We jumped in a taxi so that Maggie could make a pilgrimage to Penny Lane . The pre - requisite soundtrack played on my ipod . The taxi driver could not believe it when we wanted to just turn around and go back to the train station again . " you 've got to be kidding me ! " he said . But then started chuckling . " you could have bought a Penny Lane street sign in the gift shops for 3 ? . " but it 's not the real thing " , we said . And Liverpool is the real thing . This entry was posted on Monday , October 29th , 2012 at 7:57 am and is filed under Uncategorized . You can follow any responses to this entry through the Rss 2.0 feed . You can skip to the end and leave a response . Pinging is currently not allowed . 22 comments on this post Miranda says : Wel , blow me down . I never imagined Liverpool would be so proud and glorious and , I feel , a little bit triste . With your unerring eye , you captured the old lady . Thank you for taking me there.. . . October 29 , 2012 at 9:17 am Phil Abel says : Wonderful pictures of a great city . Next time try Otterspool Promendade in Aigburth which has wonderful river views . Must go back. . . October 29 , 2012 at 11:58 am Gay says : Thank you for this visual treat of Liverpool . I made a visit myself in 1995 and it was good to revisit via your post . What urged me to write a comment was the fact that your aesthetics for buildings echoes that of my own . I I ve in Western Australia and our current Government has spent oodles of money on a new entertainment complex that actually makes me feel physically upset when I see it....all angles and sharp jagged points with seemingly no consideration for it 's placement in relation to the surrounding river and other heritage buildings of our city . You say " Poor Liverpool " and I second that with " poor Perth ! " i was born and brought up in Liverpool ( unfortunately i now I ve in Manchester ! ) thank you for showing it in a kinder light than its usually portrayed . October 29 , 2012 at 2:35 pm Nicola says : More Grade 1 listed buildings , more junkitecture since the 1950s , more dereliction . I was born in Liverpool but grew up in Oxford . My grandparents married in Falkner Square - church long gone . You capture the grandeur and the loss . Your book is great too ! October 29 , 2012 at 3:49 pm Niall says : I wonder if you noticed the Tracy Emin sculpture in front of the overgrown mausoleum ? I think it is called Standard , as in Roman Standard , as it depicts a little bird he d on top of a staff , all in bronze . I have always thought it is a very poetic piece and hope to see it one day , although I had assumed it would probably have been removed after the city of culture celebrations , so it was nice to spy it in the photograph looking both defiant and fragile . I Also wondered what you thought of Stirling 's work at Albert Dock ? October 29 , 2012 at 7:17 pm Kevin Mckeon says : The furniture splayed out like an axe head in the Tate is an early piece by Tony Cragg . Part of what was called New British Sculpture in the 80s . I love his work . Also very fond of that Tracy Emin bronze that Niall mentioned . Never been to Liverpool either but these photos really temp me to go , excellent . Looks strangely empty of inhabitants mind you ! October 29 , 2012 at 9:58 pm Ben says : I love Tony Cragg too , and I wondered if it was ( let us face it , I could have checked the label ) . And I like it because of its familiarity with my junk market too . When I was fifteen we got taken to the Tate to see Tony Cragg 's exhibition having just won the Turner Prize . I still remember it . I bought the catalogue , the first exhibition catalogue I think I bought . Liverpool was fab . The streets were empty because everyone was shopping! ! ! October 29 , 2012 at 11:08 pm peter says : Ben , as a newly adopted son of Liverpool I must confess I loathe the place. . . but you have shown it in a new and favourable light perhaps I should I ve it a second chance ? Ps I too love your new book ! October 29 , 2012 at 11:11 pm Ben says : Darn it Niall , I had read about the Standard , do you know the awful thing I was so busy taking in the mausoleum and the buildings ( and my dislike of the Cathedral ) and where we were headed next. . . I did not see it . But I now have a reason to go back . Plus I missed the giant Lutyens model I was rude about , which was in the Museum of Liverpool I was even more rude about . I loved the conversion of the docks . Although they say that Stirling 's work has all itself been made over , the Tate felt much more naughties than eighties . October 29 , 2012 at 11:11 pm Mrs H says : Ben , Thank you for this great post , so beautifully written and even more beautifully photographed . I went to day school in Liverpool in the early 90s and have immensely fond memories of the city and especially its people . The restoring of its architectural heritage has had a very cheering and civilising effect - scousers are proud of their city now in a way they were n't when I was a young teenager . October 30 , 2012 at 9:14 am Joe says : Ben , how bizarre that only 3 weeks ago after many months of reading your blog , I was outside your shop in Rugby St ( a bit early ) peering in to see if anyone would open up thinking you 'd love Liverpool . Glad you came to my hometown but a shame as you could have come and I ve me some advice on my Victorian renovation . Anyway if you come again you must see Cressington Park and some of the city 's parks . Glad you enjoyed it so much . October 30 , 2012 at 10:48 pm Ben says : Hi Joe , I really did enjoy it and I am looking forward to coming back ! Thanks for visiting the shop too ! Ben October 30 , 2012 at 10:57 pm Rhianwen says : You captured the Liverpool I know and love . Born and brought up there ( tho not born of Scouse parents ) it is indeed a place of contradictions . You capture the beauty that many are blind to. . . Did you go to the Philharmonic Hall or the Phil pub while you were there ? Perhaps on your next visit . October 30 , 2012 at 11:39 pm Matthew says : Ben , I never imagined Liverpool to be so beautiful ( excuse my ignorance ) . Port cities seem to have some real hidden secrets , Southampton & Marseilles being the two prime examples . I am really stunned by your pictures . October 31 , 2012 at 2:14 am Suzy says : Really wonderful photos October 31 , 2012 at 3:33 am Mrs H says : I 'm back again . I can n't stop looking at these gorgeous pictures . Would it be cheeky to ask you for some technical information about the camera you used ? I think you 're using an ultra - wide - angle lens and if so , would love to know some specifics . November 1 , 2012 at 6:49 am Ben says : Hello ! No problem . I use a Panasonic Lumix handheld point and shoot , they are very basic to use and I think very very good . November 1 , 2012 at 7:11 am Mrs H says : Good grief . I 'm astounded . I was so sure you were going to list some fancy 600 lens . Well , they do say it 's the eye and not the camera that makes the photographer . Thanks so much for letting me know , even if the news does make me despair about my own photography . November 1 , 2012 at 8:06 am Ben says : My trick is - use a lot of zoom , and wherever possible , shoot into the light ! Hi Ben , a really enjoyable piece . Such a atmospheric place . Distinct and pleasing lack of ( visible ) gentrification of those Georgian streets . The new junki - tecture is shocking . An even bigger mistake than some of the 60?s stuff . Will we ever learn ? ! A slight pang for life Bc ( before children ) when we could just up sticks and go and look at places . If you go again , Port Sunlight , on the other side of the mersey , is well worth a look . j
3  What to do at Kangaroo Island ? Kangaroo Island , the third largest island in Australia , is located in South Australia , 112 kilometers ( 70 miles ) south - west of Adelaide . The island is very versatile and even though I was only there for 2 nights , I feel I got a nice taste of the island . See The Wildlife A good starting point to see some wildlife up close is at Seal Bay . Seal Bay is home to a colony of Australian Sea Lions . Here you can observe Sea Lions by either taking a guided tour onto the beach or a self - guided tour along the boardwalk . The guided tour , which is about 45 min ( adult:30 Aus $ ) will I ve you access to the colony , where the self - guided tour ( adult:15 Aus $ ) will not I ve you access to the beach , but views along the bay . This is just one of the many animals you`ll be able to spot on Kangaroo Island . Have a look at the wildlife I`ve encountered at Kangaroo Island . The formation of Remarkable Rocks is a I ve hundred million year old story of change . Little by little change continues , aided by the wind , water and salt . Lighthouse at Cape du Couedic You can do a walk or a hike around here : Lighthouse Heritage Walk - 600 meters loop , walk time 10 minutes Cap du Couedic Hike - 2 kilometers loop , hike time 40 minutes Weirs Cove Hike - 3 kilometers return , hike time 50 minutes Walk is easy , the hikes are moderate . Admiral`s Arch Beautiful natural rock arch that displays the power of the ocean and weathering which has shaped the coastline . Do n't forget to observe the New Zealand fur - seals on the rock platforms around Admirals Arch from the viewing platforms and boardwalk . Make A Stop Along The Many Bays And Beaches Pennington Bay Known as a good surfing spot ! Vivonne bay Bales Beach The nice thing is that often you have the beach all to yourself Take In The Scenery Along The Way Cape du Couedic On the way to the Remarkable Rocks Canola How long should you stay at Kangaroo Island ? Let`s just say , three days gives you a taste of the island , 5 days gives you time to explore the wineries and vineyards and 7 days let`s you discover the island by bush walking , going fishing and so much more . By Airplane : The airport is located 13km from the Island 's capital , Kingscote . Personal tip for food : Check out Fish and Chips Fresh Seafood , the best fish and chips on Kangaroo Island if not of South Australia . This spot was recommended by Terry , our tour guide on our wildlife tour . About Isabelle There 's nothing more I love than traveling the world , camera in hand , experiencing new adventures and discovering new destinations . I hope to be an inspiration and help others in their ventures to explore the world .
3  Mad , Magic New Mexico My memory of New Mexico is a long series of moments tinged with magic . The Rio Grande sparkling in the afternoon sun as Flemming and I drove alongside , through the gorge it carved . That lightness of being escaping the city and heading south over the broad flatness of the state with those incredible clouds for a canopy . The exhilaration of standing in an antenna dish in the Very Large Array looking across the plain to the mountains holding storms at bay . Running down the spaceway at Spaceport America and how incredible seeing something as earthly as a tarantula on its threshold felt . Being scored by the cleansing sun in White Sands . Hanging out in the quiet of Alamogordo watching the light change over the mountain outside of town , with the Ravemobile - a Dodge Avenger with a wicked stereo - reassuringly close by . Chasing the ghost of Billy through old Lincoln . And always , the pounding I ve of the music in time to it all . Gratuitous open road photo , somewhere south of Albuquerque New Mexico invaded my senses from the first meal of green chile chicken soup I had with Brian in Cecilia 's Cafe , to the last sip of fine tequila the night before I left . They call it the Land of Enchantment ; that , for me , had a lot to do with suddenly seeing stuff from my younger daydreams play out in front of my eyes . New Mexico , home of Billy the Kid , the world 's first atom bomb , the world 's first commercial spaceport , this great stuff called chile , horses , rodeos , the open road , the wild West , the Rio Grande , canyons , mountains , the reality of science and history in living motion , and along with it all , a multitude of colours and contrasts . There was almost too much to take in , even just on the surface . Vaughn diner So much happened in the ten days of September that I was in there , and such great people to finally meet after years of talking over the internet . New Mexico is home to the most awesome Brian Miller and family , and it so happened that Dan Milnor and Flemming Bo Jensen were hanging around too . A confluence , if you will . There was heaps to see , stop for , endless miles of unbelievably flat plain to try and fall off , big roads leading into infinity , and of course , the Vla and a bonafide Spaceport suggestively hinting at the future . Virgin Galactic Hangar Spaceport America I struggled to shoot at all on some days , confounded by the alien dilemma of wanting to take a picture to solidify the memory , and equally not wanting to take said picture because the operation would diminish each precious second . I will admit that on the majority of occasions , I chose to forgo the picture . Perhaps this is what happens when one is overwhelmed by the immensity of the here and now . There is something about this state that evokes weightlessness , boundlessness and an utter , beautiful freedom I 've never felt before . A madness for which there is no cure . Real magic lives in New Mexico . Believe . Nightwalking in the town of Truth or Consequences Albuquerque The Very Large Array American view A million thanks to : Brian Miller and family for putting me up and sharing your lives and stories , and Flemming for an epic road trip . Magia ! Post navigation 14 thoughts on " Mad , Magic New Mexico " The tilt in the second photo really conveys the energy , vigor , and restlessness you seem to have had while there . A whirlwind . The detail and interestingly unique views you show us of typical Nm ( i assume , Brian ? ) landmarks certainly speak to your voice and your time there . Who are you , the female Ernst Haas ( see 4th from bottom " albuquerque" ) ? I felt very free in Nm . There 's something really raw about the place , that I can n't put my finger on . I I ve in a huge , wild and largely empty state myself ( western Australia is a third the landmass of continental Australia , so dwarfs Nm in terms of size ) but it never existed in my head the way America 's wild west has - too many cowboy stories I think ! - so finally being there made me go somewhat loco . Loved it . ernst haas. . . ha ! i wish !
3  22nd Junewe arrived in tropical paradise ! Too tired to do anything , we slept for pretty much all of our first day in Cairns ! Flight was very tiring , and confusing . We have discovered what it means to be jet - lagged ! Awesome plane though , unlimited movies , and we were given a lot of goodies . . ( all of which I ' borrowed ') Singapore airport was unbelieveable , it had a swimming pool ! And a gym ! And those moving walkways you get at disneyland ! It was incredibly clean . They had these little foot massaging machines which I got addicted to . : ) Hostel ( caravella 149 ! ) seems clean , people are friendly , and it is located right on the Esplanade , just I ve minutes from town . There are croc signs everywhere , so we are terrified to hit the sandy he s just yet . Lots of nice shops and the weather is nice and sunny . But not too hot . Amy x 23rd June Darned Jet Lag ! ! Still jet lagged um not much to report... . . Lucy 24th June Got up close and personal with Harvey ! ! After waking up at 4am in the morning on Monday we woke up at 12.30pm ! ! What Rainforest Dome View of Cairns coastline , from the top of the Rainforest Dome . Lucy also . a waste of a morning ! Our room mate Tracy is a hairdresser back home ( ireland ) and so me , Amy and Elaine ( our other roomy ) all got our hair cut ( for a small fee! ) . It was Elaine 's first hair cut in over a year ! After lunch we decided to go on a walk around Cairns and came across The Rainforest Dome on the other side of town . It was a rainforest experience on the top floor of a building great views over town . As soon as we went in it was feeding time . They had a Water Dragon inside roaming free ( argh! ) . It made me a bit jumpy I felt a ladies camera strap brush up against me and jumped out of my skin ! But all worth it when we met Harvey . I know that koalas are supposed to be quite fierce and would chase you down the street if you came across them in the wild but it was very hard to believe as Harvey loved cuddles and being stroked . He was soo soft ! There were lots of birds flying around free and they all seemed pretty tame and happy to perch on anyone ! Later that night we went to The he d in town all backpackers go there as you get a free meal ! You can n't turn down free food when you 're a back packer ! Great pub , but very much like freshers week at the union when you 're a student . You could identify the people on the Oz Experience tour , they were the ones that straight after dinner got up and danced on the tables...at least we waited for our food to go down before we joined them ! Got chatting to some other back packers too ! Starting to settle in ! Lucy 25th June Up Up and Away.. . . An early start as we had to catch the bus to the Skyrail . . the longest cable car journey in the World , 7.5km ! ! Lucy 's phone alarm had failed to go off , but luckily I had woken up about 20 minutes before the bus arrived . So as you can imagine , it was a rush to get everything ready . . ( especially considering the time Lucy takes to get ready in the bathroom ! ) Once on the bus , we had a very odd tour guide . He told us it was illegal to eat on his bus , yet he answered his phone three times while driving ! And once when going round a roundabout ! We were fearing for our lives . . And he had no teeth , which kind of creeped me out a little . . The Skyrail had amazing views over the Rainforest Canopy . There were three stops Red Peak , Barron Falls , and Kuranda . At Red Peak there was a short walk through the Rainforest and a stop off at the toilets ( i refused to go as it was just a big hole in the ground ! ) It was here where we saw the World 's tallest tree ! Barron Falls was absolutely beautiful ! But the weather was not ideal , as it was chucking it down with rain . . ( but this added to the fun. . ) Kuranda ( the main stop ) was really commerical , we did not really enjoy it that much . Instead , we went on an hours walk through the rainforest . Afterwards we stopped at ' annabelles ' Pie Shop . And both had a Kangaroo Pie each . . tasted a bit like lamb . . but a bit more tangy . Overall , a well worth while experience . On the way back , we went on the ' kuranda 's Scenic Railway '. Which went through 15 tunnels , and past 4 waterfalls ! When we got back , we hit the pubs for a drink with Elaine , and her friends . Hoping for a early night , as we had the Cape Tribulation trip the next day . Although this did not go to plan . I had to beg Lucy to stay out ! Amy x 26th June Bye Bye Civilisation and hello giant lizards.. . . Again the phone alarm failed me and it was a mad rush to get out of the hostel ( amy is telling me I have to say that it was my fault because I forgot my phone was a 24 hour clock so the alarm went off at 8pm! ) . We were met by a very happy tour guide ( not! ) . He started off telling us that he was on sick leave today and not meant to be working and then went on to tell the whole bus about his divorce....he also cracked some awful jokes that were in very bad taste ! We were he d off the bus at Mossman Gorge for half an hour look around at a freshwater creek . Very pretty . Got back to the bus in good time as the tour guide did nt seem very organised and did admit he wasnt sure how many people were meant to be on the trip ! ! Me and Amy think we saw a baby Cassowary ( an endangered flightless bird that is very popular over here everything is named after them ) . Our next stop was the Daintree Wildlife Zoo . Very small outdoor zoo where we saw a real cassowary and lots of crocodiles , kangaroos etc . We stopped off at a few viewing points on the way to Cape Tribulation as we wound deeper into the rainforest . It is one of the few places where rainforest he s the beach breathtaking ! We were staying at a fantastic hostel totally would recommend to anyone called Pk 's Village Hostel . There were lots of wooden lodges nestled in the rainforest but right next to the beach as well . Amy thought the fake lizard above our lodge was a nice touch ! Pks just had a great laid back atmosphere very sad to only be staying one night so we well and truly made the most of it . went down to the beach with Ryan , a lovely canadian guy who was on our trip . We went for a paddle in the sea and went looking for coconuts . Ryan took about 15 minutes to crack one open ( on a rock ) but it was worth it he made me and Amy a fruit salad with passionfruit and bananas in the coconut shell and brought it to our lodge as a surprise later that evening aw ! We decided to face our fear of spiders full on , and had booked a Night Walk through the Rainforest . It was incredible to walk through the Rainforest at night . There were so many stars , and they were so bright . At one point , we stood around in a circle and turned off our torches . It was pitch black ! Apart from the luminious , glowing fungus that he s to the leaves . We saw a small green frog , very sweet ! A few big spiders , and a Razorback Pig . We then were taken to a lake , to go Crocodile Spotting . The little tour guide , Hans , with his bushy beard ( me and Amy thought he looked like a very old santa on safari ! ) was rushing backwards and fowards searching for this croc . We eventually saw two small glowing lights in the distance ( these were apparently the crocs eyes but everybody on the trip thought they were fake ! ) Lucy 27th June Sea Kayaking Got up nice and early to have a leisurely kayak around the Cape Tribulation Coastline but in true rainforest style it chucked it down with rain and the waves were pretty big....me and Amy just about managed to keep up with everyone but after an hour the trip was called off as the water was too rough to continue . After the kayaking we went back to the hostel to change into dry he s and were then picked up by bus to go to our next destination Port Douglas . There is not an awful lot in Port Douglas except for Four Mile beach four miles of long sandy beach and some very groovy hostels ! Amy even got us a discount at our hostel ' dougies ' by flashing a big photo of her boyfriend Darren with an owl on his shoulder ! ! Hm ! ! That night we went to the Yacht Club for dinner and had the most amazing food , could nt fault a thing ! We then went down to the pier and listened to I ve rock music ! Tomorrow we are heading back to Cairns for a couple of nights as the sea was too rough for us to snorkel the Great Barrier Reef earlier this week . Lucy 28th June A Lazy Day Today was a pretty lazy day , spent relaxing in the park after our very eventful past few days ! In the evening , we went to eat our free meal at ' the Woolshed ', met a few nice people ! The guy pretty much definately convinced me to do a Skye Dive ! : ) On our way back to Caravella we took the short cut route , and decided to have some fun with the Jelly Baby statues outside Cairns Art Gallery ! Amy x 29th June Snorkelling in the Great Barrier Reef Early start to catch the sailing boat which is just a short walk from our hostel . Our boat was very small and there were only 14 people on the boat which was great considering most of the boats are huge and take about 300 people ! So we got a very friendly and personal service ! We anchored just outside of Green Island where the water was about 7 metres deep and 22 degrees ! Very clear and you could see the bottom . We went snorkelling for about an hour before lunch and saw all sorts of beautifully coloured fish , giant clams , coral etc. . . We had lunch on the boat and then got into a small speed boat and jetted over to Green Island for two hours of sun bathing , walking and paddling . In the afternoon we went on a reef tour . A crew member took us out with our snorkelling gear and taught us about the reef , the types of fish and coral that we could see . I held a sea cucumber , felt very squidgy ! When we got back we decided that as it was our last evening in Cairns ( sniff ) we should finally make use of the free Bbqs around Cairns on the Esplanade . I shoved a load of cutlery and crockery into my rucksack and we grabbed Canadian Ryan and went to the supermarket . Quite amusing as the cutlery kept falling through the bag even in the supermarket a knife fell out and jammed in the automatic door ( not We bought some cheap sausages , rissoles and reduced buns . Amy prepared the food , Ryan cooked it and I he d to Macdonalds to get fries . Dinner was pretty tasty although slightly burnt but the setting was lovely as it was the first night The Lagoon was open and it looked amazing...very jealous that Ryan gets to have a I m there tomorrow while we 're stuck on a bus for four hours . Aboriginal settlers arrived on the continent from Southeast Asia about 40,000 years before the first Europeans began exploration in the 17th century . No formal territorial claims were made until 1770 , when Capt . James Cook took possession in the name. . . more info Welcome to my country ! Hey guys sounds like your having a fantastic time already ! Great photos , and a great idea for people to keep up to date with what your doing . I am moving into my own place tomorrow in a place called Frankston not a great area , but it 's now very easy for you guys to crash a few days , and I will plan a few things for us to do may even take a day off ! Was also thinking of getting you guys some tickets for an Aussie Rules game if you want to go ? Should be easy enough and not too I ve do n't mind helping you both out with costs for tickets as it 's well worth it ! If You Get A Chance Let Me Know  Suze
3  Tuesday , November 06 , 2012 Day 280 282 : Kerikeri and the Bay of Islands In our last three days on the North Island , we drove north of Auckland and into Wenderholm Regional Park , home of Couldrey House and Gardens . This is an historic Victorian - edwardian era home , beautifully renovated and set in amazing parkland . As luck would have it , we could n't actually look around the house itself as the opening times are very I ve ( it is only open for 3 hours on weekends ) , but the weather was fantastic , if chilly , so we were able to take a walk around the grounds . There are fantails everywhere in the area . I had two or three following me as we were walking around , and I thought that they had been semi - tamed by visitors feeding them , but when I tried to I ve them some bread they completely ignored it and still insisted on flying close to me . It was then that I realised that they were actually behaving territorially and were trying to get me off their patch . I had to I ve them credit these things are tiny , and they were trying to shoo off a giant . There are walking trails all around the grounds ; we chose the Maungatauhoro Te Hikoi track which took us on a steep walk up through the surrounding forest and gave us views out over the area and the grounds . Apparently , you can often spot rare birds along this trail , but neither of us saw a single feathered I ve avian attacker . We are not cut out to be twitchers , but that 's probably a good thing . I do n't think being a geek And a bird spotter would do much for my reputation . Having said that , on leaving the grounds we were escorted back to the van by some pukeko in the car park . We found an excellent place to stay for the evening Beachside Holiday Park in Paihia . Primarily designed for the summer ( the dining areas are all outside ) , it was nevertheless a hospitable place with a good location , and had that Nz rarity : free wi - fi . It was a great spot to camp ahead of our activity the next day . We decided against a trip to the Waitangi Treaty Grounds ; we 'd seen and heard plenty about it , and did n't fancy being fleeced to stand in a spot where a document was signed . For me , the document itself was the important part , not the location it was signed and we 'd already seen the original in Wellington . Haruru Falls is not far from Paihia , and is worth a stop on the way up through to the Bay of Islands . It would be interesting to look back on the completion of our journey and see how many waterfalls we actually visited over the 12 month period . I suspect it would be well into double figures . We made our way up the coast to Kerikeri , which Sharon had recommended we visit . It 's the biggest town in the Northland region of New Zealand , and is host to many of the country 's most historic buildings . Two of the highlights are the Stone Store , which is the oldest stone building in the country , and the Mission House , which is the oldest wooden building still standing in the country as well as the oldest building overall . The Stone Store was built from sandstone and was originally intended to be a trading post for the missionary based in the town , and it used to have a belfry which disappeared long ago . After it became less profitable , it became a barracks , a school , a store once again , a library and ultimately a tourist attraction . Mission House was the home of the Kemp family for almost 150 years , as they he d a mission in the town . It was ultimately donated to an historic trust for preservation and restoration . We were blessed with wonderful , if chilly , weather for our time in Kerikeri , and took a leisurely walk around the area after lunch , encountering the flora and fauna including a chicken that bore than a passing resemblance to Lady Cluck from Robin Hood . The day was n't over ; just opposite the Stone Store and over the water is a recreation of an unfortified village or kainga , called Rewa 's Village . This is a faithful construction which includes many of the features you would have found in such a place : a weapons store , fishing canoe , chief 's house , cooking shelter , and " natural toilet pit " which is essentially a place by the river which he d away waste twice a day . The doorways of the huts were deliberately created low , so any attackers would have to stoop to enter which would make it easier for defenders to clobber them around the head . As light was fading , we made our way back to the Beachside Holiday Park and took a look around the eponymous beach . More he s awaited us on our last day . Driving back down from the Bay of Islands , we took the scenic route along the coast , which allowed us to stop off at various bays , parks and he s including Bream Bay and Whangarei Heads . Waipu Cove in particular stood out . Waipu ? Well , when you have to go.. . . It had almost perfectly still water , and wonderful murals on the outside of the public toilet walls : Our last trek in the country was up to the lookout on the Dome Forest Walkway . I was a little too enthusiastic and managed to twist my ankle running up these steps : It 's lucky I was at the peak of physical fitness with the pain threshold of a rhino , as I could easily saunter on as if nothing had happened . ( this may not strictly be true , but after some grumbling I managed to limp up to the top ) . We hit the road , found another campsite within easy driving distance of the airport , and settled in for a final night . Our travels around New Zealand were at an end . It is a marvellously scenic country , with something to appeal to anyone with even the vaguest interest in straying outdoors . It also has the benefit of looking as stunning in the winter time as I 'm sure it would be in the summer . Whilst it 's possibly a little too chilly for me to consider living there , and the remoteness of the country would probably get to me after a while , as a place to visit you simply can n't run short of things to do or see . It also has potentially the greatest wine I have ever tasted , beating even Australia 's formidable selection . On our return to the Uk , Marlborough would definitely be my wine region of choice . I can n't say I was n't looking forward to our flight the next day , though . After spending the previous two months wrapped up and shivering , we could n't wait to get back into the warm sun and take a dip in the water . Fiji was our 11th country on the trip , and was going to be our " holiday " from travelling . We intended to spend the next three and a half weeks doing as little as possible .
3  Crossing over to the other side The ferry crossing from South to North was . . . . . long . We had planned on staying up on deck for the journey to take in the scenery and as it was a lovely sunny day so should n't be a problem except I 'd forgotten my jacket and only had shorts and t - shirt on so once we got moving I got very very cold from the wind ! ! I managed to stick it out until we left the sounds only diving inside to use the loos and get a hot drink which I was expecting to cost a fortune but it did n't so was quite pleasantly surprised ! ! We did n't see any dolphins on our trip but did see the house with the overhead power cables stretching from one island to the next ! We were on the top deck at the time and there is n't much clearance between the funnel of the boat and the wires ! After we left the sounds and were on the open straight we headed into the warmth for some warmth and food . We he d the film that was on before heading back out on deck once we could see land again . It was still really cold on deck so we We had n't decided what campsite we were heading to once we disembarked and naively thought we would be able to stop and work it out oh how wrong we were ! ! Having come from a quiet Picton and relatively uninhabited South island we were definitely not prepared for driving straight onto the main roads of Wellington City centre ! ! We quickly typed in an address on sat nav for one of the campsites and tried to work our way around the city traffic system ! ! Soon we were on a Motorway ( ! ! ! ) and heading North out of Wellington city . Shortly after that we were back on State Highways rather than a motorway but still the biggest and busiest roads we have driven on for a long time ! ! When we arrived at the campsite we had set out for we found that it no longer existed not as a campsite anyway ! ! The house and lodge were there but there was n't a business being run out of it anymore so time to find another one ! ! By the time we arrived it was getting late in the day and having been travelling all day we did n't really care what it was like it was cheap and I was fed up of driving ! ! We were actually only about 25 minutes outside of Wellington but had managed to I ve to Porirua via Upper Hutt so had gone the long way around ! ! I had arranged to visit one of the local schools in a couple of days time so the following morning we headed back into Wellington to walk around the city and see some of the sights . We went straight to the Museum on the waterfront and actually arrived before it opened ! We spent a few hours wandering around there and looking at all the artefacts . Some of the displays on the earthquakes and volcanoes were fantastic and quite interactive . The animal displays were great and the giant squid was fascinating . After that we headed into town for lunch and to find the Cable Car . We had about 3 maps all of which we left in the vanso mindlessly headed off to find the cable car , just in the wrong direction ! ! Eventually after gong in a full circle we found the I - site and got a map . We soon found the cable car and headed to the top to walk around the botanical gardens . Some of the sculptures in the gardens were really good but we were disappointed with the rose garden and the lack of seemingly open grass space . Luckily it was a nice sunny day without much wind so it was still a pleasant walk . Once back down we walked back to the van along the seafront . A schools boating competition had just he d and the kids were pier jumping and having a great time in the sun ! As the school I was due to visit was close to the campsite we 'd stayed at the night before we headed back there , it was cheap and close to where we needed to be . The school I went to visit s on a really old site but luckily their new school is ready to move into next term so they are currently in the process of boxing everything up and sorting stuff out . The staff were fantastic and gave me some great information . Similar to the other schools I 've visited they have their secondary students with high needs on the base site with satellite classes based at some of the surrounding schools I really must find out how these classes work as I still have no idea ! ! Looking at the drawings for the new school it is going to be fairly similar to Mary Rose , in that all the classes are one side of the corridor and all the specialist rooms are the other side . The big differences are that the corridor is curved and that they do not have many specialist rooms . But it is going to be markedly better than the premises they are in and will allow them to take on more students . After leaving the school we headed north not really knowing where we are going so are currently stopped in Palmerston North for the night ! ! Mark and I are taking a year out from our jobs to travel the world . Mark has attempted to travel twice before , first time he liked one place so much he stayed for the year and the second time he encountered a few visa issues along the way so returned early . A year out and jobs to come back to we are looking to do everything we possible can in the year away . We are currently still in the planning stages but thought we would start this blog to get used to using it before we go ! We hope this blog will keep our beloved friends and family up to date and enterta. . . full info The Polynesian Maori he d New Zealand in about A.d . 800 . In 1840 , their chieftains entered into a compact with Britain , the Treaty of Waitangi , in which they ceded sovereignty to Queen Victoria while retaining territorial rights . in that same year. . . more info
3  Guest Postexperiencing Albufeira For The First Time Rob James is seasoned traveler who often uses holiday cottages uk based company Cottages Direct . Rob enjoys travelling with his wife and four daughters , and can be found blogging about many places around the Uk and abroad . His favourite quote is " if you rest , you rust . " - helen Hayes Although I 've been to Portugal several times , I 'd usually focused on the larger cities like Lisbon . I wanted to see more of the country , and was recommended by a friend to check out Albufeira on the South East Coast . Part of the Algarve coastline , Albufeira does have a bit of a reputation as a hotspot for British tourists and clubbing , but I was assured by my friend that there was a lot more to the city than that . If I 'm going on a weekend trip by myself , I tend to like having one day to explore widely around a city , and one day to stick to one part and relax a bit more . Albufeira 's appeal is divided between ' the Strip , ' an area of clubs , bars , and shops around Montechorno to the east , and the historic , more sedate , Old Town in the centre . Albufeira used to be a Mediterranean fishing village , but has expanded a lot to take in local areas . It 's popularity with tourists also means that it 's easy to get to from Faro Airport . I took a bus and a taxi into the Old Town , where I was staying in a small villa near the seafront . It was a good base to have , with views out over the sea , and was near enough to the main square in the Old Town . As I was travelling in the Autumn , most of the summer crowds were starting to drift away , revealing a relatively small city that is dominated by its sandy beaches . The weather was still hot enough to feel like summer , though , and I decided to spend my Saturday exploring the he s and the Marina to the west of Albufeira . The old Marina itself is worth visiting for appreciating the city 's fishing history , and for the local seafood restaurants . I decided to explore the various he s along the coast , taking in Falesia and Olhos de Agua . Although still quite busy , I was able to climb up over the red sandy hills of the coast into the valleys to take photographs and do some hiking . Having tired myself out on the Saturday , I decided to focus on enjoying my Old Town base on the Sunday . The Old Town is very much what you 'd expect from a preserved fishing village , with great narrow streets , cobbles , and old buildings that show Arabic architecture . The Old Town is also excellent for history buffs - i took in the Sant 'ana Church , the dusty remains of the city 's Castle and St . Anne 's Gate , and the imposing Torre do Relogio clock tower . Most of these monuments are within a few minutes walk of each other around Old Town 's main square . Old Town also impressed me with its boutique shops , and more seafood and cosy bars , making me glad that I did n't wander out to the busier Montechorno and ' the Strip '. On a recommendation , I checked out the Cavern Pub , which was showing I ve football on the Sunday night . In the end , I just he d that I had a few more days to enjoy seeing the rest of Albufeira , at least without having to rush around everywhere . Top of my list for a second trip will be the Pintor Samora Barros Art Gallery , and the Municipal Archaeology Museum , as well as the nearby Zoomarine theme park and boat trips if i come back with other people .
3  Exploring Lisboa Alright , folks , I 'm a day behind so let me catch up on what we 've been up to . Yesterday we slept in and decided to make it a leisurely day . We began by taking the bus over to Belem where we began with the Museu Nacional dos Coches . Queen Amelia created this museum in 1905 upon recognizing the cultural shift away from he s and ceremonial vehicles of that nature . It is really stunning . The detail and ornamentation on the he s and berlins was exceptional . I do n't think my photos even begin to do them justice they were absolutely incredible . We spent quite a bit of time there , browsing the he s and other I ve pieces stirrups , saddles , riding blankets . Then we grabbed a quick bite on our way to the Mosterio dos Jeronimos . Portugal used its vast wealth from their new trade routes ( during their Golden Age of Discovery ) to construct this beauty . The church holds Vasco de Gama 's tomb and is quite stunning even though after seeing so many of Europe 's he s I am a little worn down . The monastery cloisters are the real gem in my opinion . They are absolutely breathtaking in their seeming simplicity . The carvings are incredibly intricate and Zach and I both wondered if the carving began after the structure was built or before . Again , I do n't know that my photos do it justice , but it can at least begin to paint a picture . After leaving Jeronimos we hopped back on the bus to wonder around the Chiado neighborhood . Without much shopping luck and needing to rest before our dinner , we headed back to our apartment . One of the things we planned Before arriving in Portugal was a dinner at 100 Maneiras . We had seen the restaurant on Anthony Bourdain 's Lisbon episode and decided we wanted to try it out . So Zach emailed the restaurant and made our reservation before we left so that we could be certain to eat there . Our reservation was for the earlier dinner at 8:00 so we left our place around 7 to walk over there . We did the prix fixe menu which was 10 courses and It Was Amazing!!!!!!!! ! ! This was our first time to eat at a Michelin - starred restaurant and I 'm going to say , it was wellll worth it ! ! I took photos of most course , but they definitely do n't do them justice . One of my favorite courses was the duck ravioli mmmm ! But honestly , they were all really delicious . After dinner we went out for drinks in the Bairro Alto neighborhood where you can stand and drink in the streets ( which are more like alleyways ) . The mojitos are famous and for good reason they really pack a punch . We eventually trekked the long way back and set our alarm to get up early for a day in sintra .
3  My last full day in Beijing is dedicated to the Temple of Heaven which is a complex of religious buildings at the southeastern part of central Beijing . The complex occupies an area of 2.7 square km ; larger than the Forbidden City . It was a place where the emperor ( son of heaven ) gave thanks to heaven and prayed for good harvest for the following year . The Temple of Heaven was constructed from 1406 to 1420 during the Ming dynasty . It was inscribed as a Unesco Heritage site in 1988 . The park is opened to public in 1918 . It becomes a popular place for people to gather for singing , exercising , socializing and past times . A corridor like those found in palaces with a colour scheme of blue to represent heaven . The most recognizable building in the complex is the Hall of Prayer for Good Harvests . It is a circular building on a triple layered white marble terraces . This is where the emperor would offer sacrifice to the heaven on Winter Solstice . The Hall of Prayer for Good Harvests has round roof with three layers of eaves . The circular roof symbolizes the sky and blue represents the color of heaven . The building is built completely in wood without the use of any nails . The original building was burned down by a fire caused by lightning in 1889 and it was re - built several years later . The three layers of white marble base of the Hall of Prayer for Good Harvest is six meters tall and is named Altar for Grain Prayers . The interior of the Hall of Prayer for Good Harvest has four posts along the inner circle which represents the four seasons . There are 12 posts along the middle circle which represent the months and 12 posts along the outer circle which represent 12 shichen ( in ancient China , a day is divided into 12 shichens where one shichens is two hours in present days ) . Before the emperor performed the ceremony at the winter solstice , he stayed in the Palace of Abstinent located to the left of the Sacred Way . The palace is surrounded by moat for protection from assassination since the emperor is out from the Forbidden City . The Hall of Prayer for Good Harvest is connected to the Imperial Vault of Heaven on the south ( both buildings sit on the north south axis ) via the Sacred Way . The Scared Way is also known as the Vermilion Steps Bridge because this pathway is higher on the north end . The emperors in the past believed that this is the way to heaven . The emperors will walk on the Yu Route while princes and high officials will walk on the Wang Route on either side of the Sacred Way . The Triple Gate outside the Imperial Vault of Heaven . East gate for the emperor , west gate for the officials and the center gate for gods . The Imperial Vault of Heaven is in a smaller scale of the Hall of Prayer for Good Harvest . It is where memorial tablets of God are kept . The Imperial Vault of Heaven is surrounded by a circular wall known as Echo Wall where a person at one end of the wall can hear another person 's from the other end of the wall . Further south of the Imperial Vault of Heaven is the Circular Mount Altar . This is the actual place where the emperors prayed for good harvest . It is a circular platform on three levels of marble stones carved with dragons . The outer square compound represents earth . The inner circular platform represents heaven . In the middle of the circular platform is a round slate called the Heart of Heaven . This is where the emperors prayed for good harvest . The Heart of Heaven is surrounded by a ring of 9 plates , follow by 18 plates on the next ring , up to 81 plates at the last ring ( 9th ) . The number nine represent the emperor . A place where offerings were burned , perhaps . Intricate carved bronze burners used in ceremonies . View from the Circular Mound Altar . We bought a couple of the shuttle cork kicking toys for our boys to try out in summer . There were people selling various toys in the park . Another featured item in the park is a cypress tree planted more than 500 years ago . It is named the Nine - dragon Cypress for its he s which look like nine dragons wind with each other . 8 people like this post . Click yellow thumbie on the left if you like this post too .
3  9 October 2012 Tuesday . We arrived at Lifou Island of New Caledonia shortly after breakfast . The weather was overcast once again . Nevertheless , Linda and I lined up on the sixth deck for the pass to get on the tender which would take us to shore . The island looked interesting from the ship...a low lying limestone and coral island with plenty of palm trees and some he s of white sandy beaches . A church was located on the hills on either side of the beach we were headed for . Upon landing we walked to the grass shacks that sold souvenirs , and Linda bought a lava lava or sarong or whatever they call it in New Caledonia that our daughter could use as a table cloth . Then we walked to the top of the ridge which formed the backbone of the island and towards one of the churches . We were told there was a nice snorkeling beach on the other side below the church . We got there and found nice snorkeling , but no beach . We walked back to the beach where we had landed and proceeded to walk along it looking for a nice spot to sunbathe . While Linda continued along the beach looking for seashells and coral , I tried the water which was cold . I could have endured that , but the sea bottom was limestone and broken coral fragments , which was quite painful to walk on without aqua shoes . I retreated to the beach towel . There was an occasional sprinkle , which we avoided by hiding under the palm trees . But by 10:30 am a fierce rainstorm which we had seen approaching most of the morning finally arrived . The palm trees provided no protection so soon every person along the beach was drenched . Linda and I realized that there was no difference between standing under the trees and walking in the open , so decided to walk in the torrent back to the tender along with everyone else . Somehow we got separated , so after looking for Linda , decided to just catch the next tender . Upon arriving at the ship I checked with security who confirmed that Linda had arrived on board . After warm showers we dressed and went to the top deck for lunch . As most passengers were back on board with nothing to do the cruise director added an afternoon matinee at 1 pm . " real Steel " about robot boxing was perhaps the dumbest movie I have ever seen . I wanted to leave about 2 minutes into the movie , but Linda wanted to stay...oh well . The rest of the afternoon was just relaxing and talking to fellow passengers . We he d them raise the tenders back on the ship and fire up the engines to turn the ship to the south . Isle of Pines is only 120 miles away . The weather forecast is for more favorable weather , and the island is supposed to have more white sandy he s fringed with coconut palms . The day ended again with dinner and a show . They have activities until 1 am , with a movie under the stars at 10 pm and dancing , etc after that , but we have never had enough energy to stay up that late . 10 October 2012 Wednesday . The sky was cloudy as we he d the Isles of Pines . We resigned ourselves to another cloudy and rainy day . However , over breakfast the clouds started to dissipate with he s of blue sky . Our hopes were rekindled , and we quickly he d breakfast , put on our swimsuits , and caught the first tender to the island . 1774 , and naming the island was n't difficult , although the pines here are very different...almost like feathery Monkey Puzzle trees . By 1853 the island came under French control . They used it as the Pacific equivalent of Devil 's Island in the Caribbean . Upon landing we were presented with palm headbands and a welcome dance . Linda and Betty did n't come to swim , but to look around . Mike and I were here to take maximum advantage of an increasingly sunny day . We found a beautiful white sand beach with headlands of eroded limestone cliffs on each end , and dove in . The sand extended quite far into the sea , so we did n't have the problem of sore feet from coral that we had the previous day on Lifou . The water was cold but with the sun we got used to it . Most of the time I just relaxed on my towel under the palm trees ; casting an occasional glance to make sure the coconuts were firmly in place . The girls he d exploring about 10:15 am and decided to return to the ship . I really could not understand why as this was the first nice day in many days , and the quintessential South Pacific Island . Mike and I let them go , and stayed on the beach until 1 pm . We returned to the ship , changed into regular clothes , and had a quick lunch . After trying unsuccessfully to get the girls to join us , we then returned to the island to do some exploring of our own . We walked the length of a adjacent mile long beach , taking our time , before returning to catch the last tender to the ship . This was our favorite island thus far , as it was perfect weather for perfect beaches . 11 October 2012 Thursday . We arrived in Noumea on the main island of New Caledonia at 7 am to another gorgeous day . We hurried with breakfast and disembarked to catch the first shuttle bus into the city center . We were not allowed to walk because this was an I ve port with a lot of activity , and they did n't want a passenger to be run over by a forklift truck . As Mike and Betty had signed up for a shore excursion which required them to be back by 11 am , we decided to walk around the main part of town starting with the Place des Cocotiers ( coconut Square ) . Noumea is a very French city , reminiscent of a French Riviera seaside town , with a promenade along the sea front lined with palm trees and flowers and a harbor filled with yachts . This was our favorite port city on the cruise . We stopped at the market in the Quartier Latin where Linda made a few purchases for the kids . Mike and Betty returned to the ship for their tour , so Linda and I thought we would walk to the Aquarium to the south of town on the Baie de Citrons . But first we had to stop at Mcdonalds for a frozen Coke to I ve us energy ( and a medium fries thrown in for good measure ) . We then started to walk but soon fund our way blocked with construction . We decided to go with Plan B by returning to the Tourist Information Center where we got round trip bus tickets and entrance tickets to the Noumea Aquarium for $ 15 each . Once we got to the aquarium we were happy with the choice to go with Plan B as the walk would have taken at least an hour if not more , and in the heat of the day we would have died of exhaustion . The aquarium was fantastic...one of the best we have been to including the aquarium in Monaco ! We then walked across the street to wait at the beach for the next bus . While waiting , we he d the windsurfers racing across the waves helped by a very strong wind . It was pleasant , despite the wind , as we were protected by the sun by the palm trees . The bus eventually arrived 30 minutes later , and we returned to the tourist information center and then the ship for a late lunch and showers . I tried to use the internet to read my email and post some travel blogs , but the connection was terrible , and I he d nothing . I then waited on the stern of the ship for them to cast off at 3:30 pm for the non - stop cruise to Sydney . After dinner and a show Linda and I went on deck to see if we could find the Southern Cross . We had to find a dark deck which we eventually found at the top deck at the front of the ship . There we met an Australian couple , Tracy and Ian , who were also start gazing . We asked them if they could identify the Southern Cross . We all looked , but could n't see it . We talked to them for awhile and eventually whatever clouds were blocking the view cleared up , and we could see it vividly directly in the path the ship was taking . We also saw a shooting star . We then returned to our rooms for the night . 12 - 13 October 2012 Friday and Saturday . We had two more sea days before arriving in Sydney on Sunday . The weather became very bad and the sea conditions worse from about 8 pm on Friday to 8 am on Saturday , with the waves from the bow cascading against our cabin window . The sea was so rough , with the bow rising and then crashing into the next wave , that I had difficulty sleeping from being tossed around on my bed . Amazingly , the Sea Bands worked and I did n't become nauseous , and neither did Linda . This was the only rough sea conditions we had during the entire cruise , which was very fortunate . We played the final round of I ve Trivia on Saturday morning . Our team won by one point with 166 correct answers over the 9 days . We had great fun ; particularly meet the others on the team and cross paths throughout the cruise when we were n't playing . We cleared Australian customs and immigration on board...the Australian officials boarded in Noumea so made the process quite painless . As the cruise draws to an end , a few observations about Cruisers are in order . Linda and I are not Cruisers . We much prefer traveling on land to see other countries...to stay in their lodgings and eat in their restaurants , and see everyday life played out around us . We met Cruisers who were on their 40 th cruise . Their idea of visiting Europe was to take a Mediterranean cruise stopping in a different port and country every day for a couple of hours . They place a high priority on not having to change hotel rooms every day , and the convenience of having everything paid for up front , with the transportation , food , and entertainment provided without having to make decisions all the time . We cruise only when it is the only practical or cost I ve way to see what we want to see...like the Alaska Inside Passage or South Seas Islands . We will likely do other cruises , like the Caribbean and maybe from Valparaiso , Chile I was born in Bangkok , Thailand , and lived in Thailand for a total of 8 years , Vietnam for 5 years , and Malaysia for 2 years before returning to the States for college . I met Linda in college . Linda was from New Castle , Pennsylvania . We were married after college and moved to Thailand for 2 1 years , Germany for 7 years and Belgium for 11 years , where our three children , Tamara , Rosanna , and Will were born . We returned to the States and spent ten years on road trips visiting all 50 states looking for a place to retire . We are now retired in Colorado , which gives us even more time to trav. . . full info Settled by both Britain and France during the first half of the 19th century , the island was made a French possession in 1853 . It served as a penal colony for four decades after 1864 . Agitation for independence during the 1980s and early 1990s has di. . . more info Right behind you Hi guys . We are arriving in Pt Vila tomorrow . You obviously had more internet success on your boat than we have had . It has been down or unusable most of the time . Today is the first day I have been able to access Tb since we sailed . Glad you are having a good time . Have my blogs written but they will have to wait till we get home next week . The only time we had internet access was for 20 minutes in Suva , Fiji , after which I lost the connection . To minimize my time online I wrote my blogs on Word , and then cut and pasted onto Tb . For pictures , I labeled them in numerical order so when I uploaded them I could reorder them quickly using the number . You may wish to wait until you I ve in Sydney to post your blogs ! We had calm seas except for one night...hope you are having smooth sailing . Repositioning cruise I guess the weather being a little marginal is why it is a repositioning cruise but sounds like you are having fun . The islands you are exploring are great . How full is the ship ? 50 % ? Green with Envy ; ) Looks like you are both having a great time . New Caledonia has always been of fascination to me being as there are many species of palm tree that are endemic to this area . Then again , as long as we have access to a coconut palm to sit under and a cold beer , most of us guys will be exceedingly content . I dare say you will be having a beer with Dave in the next day or two , so please , have one for me too : ) Yes on the beer We took many pictures of us drinking beer to add to the beer forum . We even have pictures of the flora specifically for you to identify . I hope to post the sydney blogs soon . thanks for commenting .
3  Breath of fresh air and hope in Edinburgh Report below on the visit of the Icon to the Cathedral in Edinburgh - the Metropolitan Cathedral of Our Lady of the Assumption to I ve the full title . Much groundwork was put into the visit ( see earlier post ) and has paid dividends with several parish groups making can nt contributions . On arrival at St . Mary 's Cathedral , Edinburgh at 5.00pm on Monday 12 th November , the Icon of the Black Madonna was welcomed and blessed by the Mgr . Michael Regan Cathedral administrator and priests representing the Polish and Scottish communities in Edinburgh . . The large crowd gathering there to welcome Our Lady steadily growing in numbers as the time for mass he d were led in prayer and in particular in the Rosary of the Unborn a special rosary given by Our Lady for these times to combat the sin of abortion . Bishop Stephen Robson , was the principal celebrant of the Holy Mass that was attended by a congregation that filled the Cathedral . In his homily Bishop Robson focused on the slaughter of two world wars commemorated in the recent Remembrance Sunday services and compared it with the slaughter of millions of babies by abortion which we are not remembering . He mentioned the recent international conference on abortion held in Edinburgh saying that it was a disgrace to the capital and to Scotland . All parish groups in the Cathedral made a contribution to the visit of the Icon . The Polish pro - life group led a Rosary with meditations based on Humanae Vitae and other documents of the Papal Magisterium on life and the family . Private veneration of the icon and prayers and hymns and Taiz chants of devotion organized by the Divine Mercy Group and songs of praise and prayer from a girls group in the Cathedral made up the program that lasted until 11.00pm . The Blessed Sacrament was exposed throughout , underlining the Unity of the two hearts of Jesus and Mary in this pilgrimage , and the proceedings ended with benediction . There was in fact Exposition of the Blessed Sacrament during 80 per cent of the time of visit of the Black Madonna to the Cathedral on Monday and Tuesday , the motif being that all prayer is being directed to Jesus through Mary and through her intercession . All prayers were bilingual in Polish and English and a particularly poignant moment occurred when a I ve of the Polish Scout Movement " battled " his way all the way from London on a particularly difficult train journey to be with us and to stand at attention in uniform at the side of the Icon during the Jasna G ra Appeal . The following day the program included prayer and rosary led by the Legion of Mary , and by the pro life group , and Holy Mass was offered up for the intentions of the pilgrimage on two occasions . The act of entrustment to The Virgin Mary was made after every mass celebrated during the two day stay of the Icon . Of particular significance was the participation of Father Rafael a Greek Orthodox priest who led the congregation in the Jesus prayer offered in an additional seven languages for the cause of Christian unity . " lord Jesus Christ , Son of God have mercy on me a sinner . " Prayed in Greek was repeated in English Gallic , French , Spanish , German , Italian and Polish followed by a period of silent prayer . Father Rafael concluded the prayers with an " orthodox " blessing of the congregation . Congregation pictured during Jesus Prayer Father Jeremy Milne 's beautiful sermon was centred upon the necessity of perseverance in prayer to Our Lady for the Civilisation of Love . In his homily he reminded us how the trust that Mary showed through her fiat , led to the Incarnation of Jesus and ultimately to our salvation . She is the Mother of Trust and Prayer leading us to be a people of trust and prayer . The concluding ceremony presided over by Fr Jeremy , Fr Tadeusz Puton from Poland and a priest representing the Ukrainian community in Edinburgh , followed benediction and the Icon of Our Blessed Lady of Cz?stochowa was accompanied onto the next leg of her journey to the sounds of Czarna Madonna and Salve Regina . Just as the Icon had arrive , so she departed in the safe hands of the Knights of St , Columba who coordinated her transport throughout the pilgrimage on British soil . Dr.stefan Boron who coordinated the visit of the Black Madonna to Edinburgh made the following points . " the Pilgrimage of the Black Madonna has brought us a breath of fresh air and hope . Quite simply Our Lady is mobilising an army against the Culture of Death . From Ocean to Ocean has brought the pro - life agenda to the fore and given it the impetus that only heaven can give . Her coordination of the whole event was evident throughout . Filling in all the gaps that I had overlooked . " Another interesting point is that the presence of the Greek Orthodox priest looks like being the first step to the unity that Jesus longs for . The Orthodox community in the city has a special veneration for St Andrew who is their patron , and whose relics lie in St Mary 's cathedral . Perhaps we could follow this meeting with times of prayer where we could gather together in front of the shrine of St Andrew to offer up prayers for unity together ? This is a little like the story that Dr Tom Ward heard about the Romanian Orthodox during the visit of the Icon to Birmingham Cathedral . It appears that for I ve years that the Romanians had been praying for an occasion to meet with the Russian Orthodox . Our Lady of Czestochowa brought them together at st . chad 's cathedral birmingham .
3  A Timely Twinning : How I Became Known as the Queen of the Italian Waterways I often wonder when Ruskin wrote his great work The Stones of Venice whether he knew where the stones actually came from and how they were transported there . In the sleepy faded spa town of Battaglia Terme not far from Padua lies the key to the building of the great and unique city of Venice . The Euganean Hills around Battaglia Terme is an area of extinct volcanoes and hot springs , now a national park and an area favoured particularly by German tourists for its spa treatments and its wines . But at some point a thousand or more years ago it must have been discovered that the volcanic stone quarried there provided the perfect paving stones for the passages and alleyways of Venice , having a rough texture which prevented slipping , an important factor in a city based on water . Canals provided the easiest means of transporting these stones from Battaglia to Venice , and in consequence a network of navigation systems sprang up and remained in use until the mid 20th century . Amazingly , the Battaglia Canal was constructed between 1189 and 1201 , preceding by several centuries the canals of the English Industrial Revolution . Italian canals were often built at ground level with walls and banks to contain them , rather than dug out in he s as ours were . Paving stone Venice The Museum of Navigation in Battaglia Terme has been the life 's work ( or at least the past 30 years ) of the canal 's last bargeman , the visionary Riccardo Cappellozza . He tells the story of how he was chatting to his friend the local librarian about his work now that he was about to retire . They both realised that a whole language was about to disappear . Riccardo supplied the nouns for the tools and equipment , the verbs for the movement of cargo and business of sailing , and the stories about life on the barges . From that small beginning , he began to collect the abandoned materials of his trade from whole boats to tiny hooks . The collection grew . Space was needed . Not everyone recognised the importance of all these objects , but some enlightened fellow citizens offered I m the former abattoir to house the still - growing collection . Ss16 Padua - ferrara road follows the Battaglia Canal , and the entrance to the little town is across a modern bridge where various boats have been pulled up onto dry land , one eerily with a life - like figure keeping an eye on the traffic . This is the furthest outpost of the museum 's collection , next to boat sheds where the canal widens to permit barges to be stored and brought out for the town 's I ve occasions , for rides to Catajo Castle and back for one euro . The museum itself is tucked away behind the main road , but could hardly be missed with its colourful assortment of anchors , mooring posts , buoys etc displayed in front of the entrance . To enter the museum is to time - travel to a gentler age of beautiful hand crafted tools and a slower pace of life . But times change , and with the recent economic crisis the museum was about to close , with everything going into storage . Luckily , however , support from unexpected quarters has helped to save this valuable collection for posterity . Battaglia Canal On one of my frequent trips to Battaglia last year I met a very despondent - looking Riccardo Cappellozza , who grabbed my elbow and propelled me into the nearest bar for an espresso . " our museum has to close , " he said . " we no longer have a sponsor , and next year will be our last . " He he d deeply into his thimbleful of coffee , almost on the verge of tears . I felt indignant . Here was the most wonderful original collection , and it was all going to waste , to be turned into a warehouse instead of being brought to life by an enthusiast who had lived the life the museum portrays . Something had to be done , but what ? Over the next weeks I mulled it over . I knew nothing about canals other than what Riccardo had taught me . One of the difficulties was that the museum was n't well known , and off the beaten track . I was sure that more visitors would come if they only knew about it . Museum of Inland Navigation Battaglia Terme I needed to find a gonzoogler for advice . What , you may ask , is a gonzoogler ? I learned this wonderful word from a friend , Clare , whose family went on canal boat holidays when she was a child . Gonzoogling is a word coined to describe the business of leaning on a lock gate and watching the comings and goings of barges passing slowly through . I reasoned that Clare would be able to identify a new audience for the little Italian museum amongst English canal enthusiasts and gonzooglers . A few weeks later the two of us set off on a tour of canals in the vicinity of Oxford . Stoke Bruerne , a picturesque village in Northamptonshire , has a small museum on the banks of the canal near a lock , not far from one of the country 's longest canal tunnels . Obviously this is a perfect spot for gonzoogling . Chatting to David Henderson , in charge of the museum , was fun . Like his counterpart in Italy he 's an enthusiast , and it was n't hard to tempt I m into a twinning arrangement with my little museum , with prospects of visits , cultural exchanges and Venice almost on the door step . I relayed the good news to Riccardo on my next visit . It was just the nudge he needed to push ahead making contacts to try to find a new sponsor now that he was managing a museum with international connections . He changed overnight from being a dejected individual to a man with a mission . " ciao , stella ! " It was Riccardo ringing me from Italy a couple of weeks later , and shouting because I 'm foreign and have difficulty understanding . He can n't pronounce my name so he calls me his star instead . I held the phone away from my ear and attempted to decipher what he was telling me . As far as I could gather , here was a very excited master bargeman who seemed to have found a new sponsor for his museum , Civilt dell 'acqua. Museum of Inland Navigation Battaglia Terme On my most recent visit to the museum , I was surprised to discover that a new exhibit has found its way onto the walls of the Museum of Inland Navigation , which I find both touching and amusing . It is a large framed photograph of me standing amongst the ropes , sails and pulleys on display there . The caption reads : " to Myra Robinson , the Queen of the Waterways , in recognition of her work in building a cultural bridge between the waterways of southern england and the museum of navigation . "
3  Burnin Up Some Diesel Sixteenth Blog on the road Burnin up some diesel Howdy all , been a while we have been inland and out of range and on the odd day we have been in range I have been feeling lazy . We are on holidays and finally worked out that being lazy is what that is all about . It is the 9th of October and we have passed half way in time for our trip . We are currently camped on Ningaloo Station , right at the beach . Great spot but let me bring you up to date . I believe that in the last blog we were loaded up and ready to leave Marble Bar , I am not sure if I said it but if we did n't visit marble Bar then I think we would have missed a great little Australian Icon . That town is about what it is all about to be an Australian , formed in a gold rush now in the middle of a Iron ore Rush and largely surviving , it seems , on the back of cattle export . They seem a little peeved with the Greenies and julia over the I ve beef export debacle and hearing stories from the Nt to Marble Bar you would n't wonder why . We are camped on the beach , well 20 feet back from it , at Lefroy Bay on Ningaloo Station south of Exmouth . We get Internet reception for about an hour each evening so here is the blog 25 We ventured on to the visitors centre come council office at Marble Bar to get some advice about roads etc . For a variety of reasons a last minute decision was made to I ve e Carawine Gorge the flick and take on a road which was 150km of gravel through what was described as a beautiful part of the country . And beautiful it was , dry but beautiful . Something we have come to a conclusion about is that these big mining companies do nt I ve a stuff about anything but getting iron ore or whatever it is on to a ship to China and converting it to millions of dollars . Anywhere they are working the roads are shit and they do n't do anything to maintain them . We cruised over what was a very good 8 out of 10 gravel road until we hit the last 10km and you got it the mining companies are building a railway line and have torn the last ten kms of road to shreds . About a km in we seriously considered turning around and going back to Marble Bar and coming around on the bitumen it the shook the shit out of everything , eggs n those egg protectors he d and went everywhere . We finally hit the Great Northern Highweay 100km north of Auski Roadhouse . Uneventful trip to the Karijini national park outskirts where we camped in a huge rest area Albert Tongilini overlooking a huge gorge , the road has been built through the middle if it . 26 Up and on the road by 7am and off to Dales Gorge Camping Ground in Karijini . Had a lazy day went for a walk to Fortescue Falls and the swimming holes in Dales Gorge and then in the afternoon checked out the Visitors centre which has a brilliant historical representation of the area , whihc was ostensibly sheep country then cattle and finally you got it Iron Ore . Now this is interesting , I am far from being a Greenie and I think that they way they do National Parks in Nsw is bloody awful but here in Wa they had me right in until I heard the story of a mine out near Tom Price . The Wa Government at some stage decided that Karijini was such a spectacularly beautiful place it needed preserving , so they made it a National Park to their credit . Then along came multi national company Rio Tinto , " we can mine Iron Ore in your National Park ? " ' Of course you can we will excise the land you need out of the National Park " . Mmmm 27 We decided today was going to be a trip to Hammersley Gorge . about 100km or so from the campsite . We were advised not to take the gravel shortcut as there was two foot of water acrocss the road . We took it anyway as it saved another 100k of travel . The water was only about 8 he s deep and easily traversed . the I ve up was interesting the landscape out here is like you might imagine Mars to be . And its not because of mining it is just the way the land is formed spectacular . we arrived at hammersley Gorge to be greeted by a slowly flattening tyre . I was able to bung it up and pumped her back up . The gorge weas spectacular here are some pics . I wanted to go to Wittenoom which for a long time has been de gazetted as a town and does nt exist on any signs and is slowly dissapearing off the maps . The Government says its because it is too risky to go there me thinks it is because it is an inditmnet on mining persay . Wittenoom was a town that thrived on Blue Asbestos Mining . There are apparently still 8 people living there . Most of it has been demolished . We had to travel over another mine affected road and the result was a blow out . Two flat tyres today one tyre completely stuffed . Trip to Tom Price to buy a new tyre . Surprisingly the tyre was no more I ve here than they cost us in Sydney three months ago . Got some other supplies and back to Dales Gorge for the night 29 Today is gorge day . We went to 4 gorges and walked through two , Weano Gorge and Hancock gorge . These gorges are int he west of Karijini about 50k from the Dales Camp . The woman at the tyre shop in Tom Price said they get most of their business from travellers in Karijini the quality of the roads lets you see why . But do not be deterred by the roads Karijini is quite possibly the most spectacular thing as a whole that I have ever seen . when we left the Kimberley I said that the Gibb river Road was awesome , if you are planning a trip do the Gibb first then the Karijini otherwise you might be dissapointed with the Gibb . I should nt make such comparisions they are both spectacularly beautiful places . Ice Cream at karijini resort and back home the long way via some bitumen . 30 Lazy day down to Dales Gorge . We walked the length of the Gorge to a refreshing I m at the end . Then back to cmp to start packing up and getting ready to leave the next day . 1 In to Tom Price by 9am to the Visitors Centre to enquire about a trip to the Mt Tom Price Mine . Thr trip lefgt ast 9.30 and we were on the bus . It was a worthwhile thing , Tom Price is a mine town opened in the 60's and was sold to Ashbuyrton Council for a dollar in the 80's . The mine is open cut and is 15km long and 1.5km wide and 500 metres deep . they have made a hole in the hill would be the best way to describe it . The trains leave here with 235 carriages and go to Dampier to be loaded on a ship . The big tippers use 20 litres of fuel per km when they are hauling up hill . They run 6 pastoral leases in the Pilbara with 23000 head of cattle . The trip was interesting not sure what they will when the ore runs out . I dropped a magnetized scewdriver on the ground in karijini and when i picked it up I could nt see the head for iron filings . A bloke was telling us last night about two rocks that needed to be joined together in some monument they were building and instead of cementing them together they spot welded them with an arc welder . We left Tom Price and through Parabadoo and camped the night on the Beasley River , dry as a bone river . Met I m and Cathy from Khancoban who had a connection to Walwa , second Walwa connection on this trip Al and Mary . Its a small country with vast expanses . Met Chris and his wife and kids from Cairns who had just taken the airconditioner off the top of their motor home at the Parabadoo Petrol station . 2 Left the camp early and headed towards Dampier , someone had suggested Robe River as a camp unfortunately we found it to be jsut about dried up and windy as hell decided to make ti all the way to Dampier . Got to a river called the Matiland and hey presto water . We pulled up right beside the river hole and gave the car and van a wash they needed it . Met Pat and his wife from Perth and a young couple from Albany . Booked in to the Dampier Transit Caravan Park . look around Dampier and Karratha some shopiing Red Dog and then to the pub for tea . 4 Off to Millstream Chichester big let down after Karijini . the place had basically been burned out the day before the road to Parawoncia was still closed and the fire was burning with a full head of steam . Below are some picture of the highlights of the park . Sausage sizzle in the middle of the Caravan park and a bloke came to talk about Dampier to us all . 30 odd people gathered around it was a great night . he borrowed one of our guitars and sang some songs Anne sang a couple of songs and i played and then he and I took turns in singing songs , A kiwi bloke came in with a guitar and sang some songs he was quite good . They rocked the younger parts of the crowd and I played some country for the oldies . Best little caravan park we have stayed in we usually like to get in do out washing clean my feet and get out we have decided to stay three nights which is the maximum stay time anyway . 5 We had a I ve up to Roebuck and Cossack and Point Sampson . We had lunch in Point Sampson and back to the Caravan Park . We were invited by the bloke who came to the Caravan park to talk last night to the Sailing Club for tea . We went the club with Al and Judy from Northern Victoria . Al is also learning to play guitar . We had a nice feed and listened to some I ve music and then back to the van for a reasonably early night . 6 Packed up the van and headed out of Dampier into Karratha for my drugs and last minute food . We stopped at Maitland River for lunch and then on to Robe River for the night . Al and Judy from the night before were there and we decided we would get together and play some music . We started to play and from the camp next door came some beautiful guitar pickin . We stopped and listened it was a professional musician who was preparing for a show in Exmouth . He was Phil Edgeley and his wife Trudy . Later they came over and Al played some didgeridoo with them they sounded very good together . Then we played some songs and he gave some tips about some of our songs and the night went on . 7 Purchased a record off Phil and Trudy and packed up to move on . Stayed another night at Robe River . Some more music with Al and Judy and off to bed . 8 We paked up farewelled Judy and Al and headed soth . At a roadhouse down the road we ran into the Kiwi guitar player from the Dampier Caravan Park and his wife and kids . On to Ningaloo uneventful I ve through red desert , little growth just rolling plains of red dust then some huge red sand dunes and more flat red country . The road out to Ningaloo about 34 km was rough as guts , Anne panicked the whole way about the caravan falling apart . We got to the Homestead paid our $ 20 for the week and had to I ve a further 20km to the beach where we are now camped up . 9 10 Drove up the track to Yardie Creek andon to Exmouth . The track was the worst we have been on . The people camped down the beach came over before we left to find out if we could advise about them taking their Jayco camper I said no and sent them off to talk to someone else . They came back and decided they would take the ride . I said we would travel with them in case they got into strife . We got to Yardie Creek where you need to cross fairly loose sand and guess what , old mate got the landrover down to the axle . Iwe went thru first and came back to pull I m out . He was concerned whether the Toyota would get both the Landrover and the Jayco out , my reply " it 's a Toyota . Anne discovered we had lost one of the boat loader legs , uh ooh . So we went into Exmouth did what we had to do and headed back down the track to find our bit . We dropped in to check out the camping ground , one of them and saw Judy and Al . We drove most of the way home and there she was sitting up on a sand dune at the side of the road . Great sense of relief and a beer to celbriate . 11 Still at Ningaloo Snorkelling and more fishing today . About to eat Spaghetti Bognar and fresh baked bread mmmm better go get it . Anne did nt go much on the Snorkelling the reef here is about 100 metres from the beach,parts of it and it is absolutely beautiful . Caght a coupkla fish have nt eaten any yet Burnin up some diesel replied : Margaret G commented : Hi Anne and David , we received your Bells Falls Bells Gorge postcard so thanks for that ! I actually faxed Tom Price Visitor Centre when you first arrived at Karijini Np and asked them to say ' hi ' from me if a guy with your description happened to walk in to ask questions about the area , so do n't know if that got to happen or not would have been a long shot anyway I think . Happy travels you two and keep on having a blast !
3  According to the Flat Earth Society , Brimstone Head on Fogo Island is one of the Four Corners of the World . Really . What is the Flat Earth Society ? " the mission of the Flat Earth Society is to promote and initiate discussion of Flat Earth theory as well as I ve Flat Earth literature . " Alright , so that does n't tell us much . But here 's what Wikipedia has to say : " the Flat Earth model is an archaic belief that the Earth 's shape is a plane or disk . Most ancient cultures have had conceptions of a flat Earth , including Greece until the classical period , the Bronze Age and Iron Age civilizations of the Near East until the Hellenistic period , India until the Gupta period ( early centuries Ad ) and China until the 17th century . " I still have barely an inkling of what the Flat Earth Society or the theory really is . I just can n't be arsed . Even Newfoundland and Labrador Tourism pokes fun at it . In all seriousness , though , the designation is pretty cool . Papa New Guinea , the Bermuda Triangle , Fogo , and Hydra ( greece ) . I love how I keep finding all these Greece links . Riley , Corbin and I went in search of the trail that would take us to Brimstone Head . But as things are in rural Newfoundland , the signage was a bit off . We ended up in the wrong end of town , at Fogo Head . The view was intimidating . A straight staircase into the sky . But dammit , the view from the top was too irresistible...and so we began our climb . It was windy . Windy and steep and exhausting . Our thighs burned and our ears he d with the wind whistling between them . We passed overturned he s and broken stairs , and yet we kept climbing . The view at the top , as you can see , was definitely worth it . I 'm amazed by the colours of Central Newfoundland...the electric yellow and neon green flora is a shock to the system . But we still had to conquer Brimstone Head . We could n't come all the way to Fogo and Not do it , even if we had to catch our ferry in an hour . We arrived at the base of the trail , and groaned . I do n't know why we were expecting flat trails in Newfoundland . Maybe because of the whole " flat Earth Society " thing . That big , bulbous lump is the Head . Photo courtesy of Janice Goudie . Up , up , up we went ! Until we passed this ominous sign . I love that the zero is in quotation marks . Are they lying ? This trail is a bit rougher , rockier , and less trodden . We he d our step carefully . The wind was even more fierce here than at Fogo Head , but again , worth the view at the top . We did it ! Now I 'll have to conquer the other three , including the Bermuda Triangle . Who 's in ? It 's the second time in a week I 've heard about this place . In university I was a member of the Flat Earth Society and have the drinking mug to prove it . You can probably guess that it was more about having a good time than anything remotely intellectual . sparkpunk Count me in . We 'll go by inflatable zodiac . You bring beer . Lots . Outsidetheguidebook Four corners of the world ? Ha ha ha ha , what next ! Got to be done just for the sake of it though . Nice pictures ! http : Raymond @ Man On The Lam My duck , do n't even get me started on those Flat Earthers . I went to Fogo a couple of years ago and wrote a post about it . I asked the head of the Flat Earth Society who came up with the four corners idea ( fogo , Hydra , Bermuda Triangle , and Papua New Guinea ) , and it seems it was n't them . They say it came from the mind of a performance artist from Ontario that now lives in Twillingate . I contacted her ( nice lady ) , and she says " there are many corners of the earth " ( a very performance artist sort of thing to say . ) I 'm in . But the ' four corners ' do n't even seem to cover the any major land - areas where the ' flat earthers ' might be living . . sounds very made - up ! http : Maggie Bb Wonderful , wonderful photos ! What a beauty spot. . . I will have to go some day ( also , how much do I love the sense of humour of Newfoundland ? The most . ) http : Candice Walsh My fav was the ferry worker who saw the dozen Dominion beer in our trunk , and said : " do you know what beer is the lord 's favourite ? The lord have Dominion over all . " http : Candice Walsh See Raymond 's post below...yep , bit of a quack ! http : Candice Walsh Hahahaha . Not surprised , in the slightest . Still love that Nl pokes fun at the whole thing . http : Candice Walsh Totally ! http : Candice Walsh I like the way you think ! http : Candice Walsh Lol ! Love it . I need to hear more about this . You do n't strike me as a flat earther . http : Candice Walsh Looooves ! I think Change Islands were my fav , though . http : Audrey Bergner I want to make it to one of the 4 corners of the earth ! Maybe I 'll I m for Papua New Guinea...seems like the nearest location to me right now . Call me , maybe Looking for Something ? Who is Candice ? Candice Walsh is a Professional Experience Collector and full - time inventor of new job titles that do n't make much sense . Also , a blogger , writer , copy editor , and amateur beer taster . Former cubicle monkey town girl living in a lonely world .
3  High in the mountains of northeastern Michoac n , the Mexican Federal Government has created a sanctuary for monarch butterflies . The 160 - sq - km reserve is the winter home of an estimated 100 million butterflies which migrate there each year from as far away as Canada . In February 2012 , my husband and I hired a driver in Morelia to take us on a day trip to the butterfly reserve 3 to 4 hours away . Since we made our visit very early on a weekday morning , we missed the daily busloads of tourists and the weekend crowds from Mexico City . The long walkway from the parking lot to the entrance meanders past stands for the selling of crafts and food , the majority of which were closed that quiet morning . As you take this walk toward the reserve and begin the assent , you become aware of butterflies , many butterflies - in the air , on the ground , flying into your face . At the reserve entrance , you are shown a film about the sanctuary and the migration of monarch butterflies and then introduced to your guide . The high altitude makes the hike a challenge for some ; however , riding on a horse is an alternative . As you work your way up the mountain , the butterflies flutter through the air in a kind of blizzard and you must pay attention to avoid stepping on them . Our gently - mannered ranger guided our movements through the butterflies and pointed out potential camera shots . As we walked up , and then down the pathways and stairs , we passed professional photographers with very long lenses and small groups of scientists in deep conversation . Since we visited the sanctuary near the end of winter , the butterflies had begun moving down the mountain . The weight of millions of fluttering butterflies , amassed around fir trees , is sufficiently great to force he s to bow . A truly surreal experience . _____________ Related article Riding the buses to mexico 's colonial cities _____________ by barbara reinhardus
3  The best way to see the Hollywood sign Living in Hollywood , like I did for almost seven years , it was the one question I got asked more than anything else : " what 's the best way to see the Hollywood sign ? " Being the generous La resident that I am , the kind of person who knows exactly how vital money from both Omahaians and Okinawaians is to our economy , I always took the time to patiently explain to the inquirer where they could find the most low - impact , high - impression view . From the fourth - floor viewing platform of the Hollywood and Highland mall . I 'm serious . 95 % of people are satisfied with that view , as well as its proximity to Forever 21 . But another 5 % think they can get Even Closer . Yet like the people who I ve in the neighborhood it names , the Hollywood sign is elusive , and slippery . Just when you think you know where it is , it he s behind another stucco turret . In fact , the people who I ve in Beachwood Canyon - the tangle of narrow streets just below the sign - even designed their homes with extra turrets , just to confuse tourists . But with the advent of the Gps , technology now helps drivers to confidently navigate those nasty twists and turns deep in this residential area . And the neighbors , who believed their stucco turrets would forever trump satellite technology , are becoming as nasty as the hairpin curves they I ve on . Now a piece of land art that spells out the puzzling words " Tourists Go Away " has been created by some frustrated Beachwood sculptor near one of the places where tourists like to go . This work is so abstract in nature I 'm not sure exactly what it 's trying to say , but I think it 's a bad strategy on behalf of the artist , anyway : I mean , do n't you think tourists will come up here just to see the Hollywood equivalent of the Spiral Jetty ? As Curbed La noted , the new installation shares real estate with my other favorite Hollywood sign . In case you can n't read Beachwood Pidgin , that sign says : " no trespassing private property violaters will be persecuted . " That 's right . I had no idea that the violaters in our midst had such ideological or religious differences from the rest of us that they needed to be persecuted . But with this type of grasp on seventh - grade English , I doubt the signmaker did either . But I 'm not going to send you to the land of " go Away Tourists , " whatever that means , because , in all honesty , that 's not the best place to see the sign if you want to get Even Closer . The best place is near Lake Hollywood Park , located at 3204 Canyon Lake Drive , Los Angeles , Ca 90068 . I made a map of the area to help you find it . To prove how great this location is , I 'm going to show you a photo taken of me and Keith here . Look how close we are to the sign ! See how famous we look ! We even appear younger and thinner ! This photo was taken exactly where that camera icon is on my map . You do not have to I ve through Beachwood Canyon to get there . You can get there from the 101 . It is absolutely the best option if you 're driving . You can relax in a secret dog park and check out Madonna 's old house and Moby 's current house . Then , if you must , you can keep walking towards the sign for as long as you want , unencumbered by your car and fear of potential persecution . You violater . I seem to recall when I he d out a good viewing spot many years ago , I found that I got a good view from the road leading to the Griffith Observatory . Cinniebinnie You can also park at The griffith Park Observatory and hike in from there . Tourists and hikers are Always welcome . Ck There is also a very nice view of the sign from the parking lot at Yamishiro 's. Tracydisney6 The problem is , is that the Gps coordinates send the tourists to the worst place possible for Lafd . They end up at a dead end street that fills with cars and if there was a house fire , there would be no way for the fire truck to get to the other end of the dead end . Believe me , I have nothing against the tourists , I have been giving directions for 6 yrs now in Beachwood Cyn . But the simplest way , and avoiding all hairpin turns is straight up Beachwood I ve to the end and then you can take the trail and get great shots and not one is in danger . Now the tour van drivers , a whole other story.. . . Alissa Yes ! Observatory is another great from - a - distance view . And you can take public transit up there as well and hike the rest of the way ! pvfp Nicely done ! Wish I 'd had this information a few months ago . Despite having a I ve Angeleno as my guide , I did n't get anywhere near enough to the sign . Guess I 'll just have to come back ! Accidental Tourist Thank you for all this helpful information , I wish that you have mention some recommendations about safety , parking and respect for driveways in this neighborhood . Those who I ve here ( the majority ) do n't oppose to visitors or tourism , but would like for anyone who visits this tranquil community to respect the signs of no parking any time , no smoking and red curves . There is a great spot to see the sign from Griffith observatory and there is plenty of parking , easy access and wide roads , plus you get to see a must see tourist destination in Souther California . Thanks So much for this info ! I just made my first trip to La & took a local up to the Canyon Creek place & she had never been there before . What fun memories ( and great photos) ! ! Anonymous Thank you so much for the information on seeing the Hollywood sign ! I took a I ve up there yesterday , and I was impressed ! ! This is the kind of view that I 've been looking for ! Alissa Awesome ! Thank you so much for letting me know . Allison I just stumbled across this page . . but when I went to see the Hollywood sign last Sept , this is exactly what was recommended to us ! Even if we I d get a little lost on the way , thanks to our lousy Gps . But we got some amazing pictures there ! I 'm glad this info is out there for the tourists like me . I recommend driving up to Canyon Lake Dr through Beachhead and Not via Barham Hollywood Dr . The latter runs you around a reservoir with a nasty rusted chain link fence into a 60s community - you miss out on the Journey to the sign . Beachwood routes you through delicious winding streets , by 1920s charming spanish homes , and finally a winding road through a valley at the top of Ledgewood that is breathtaking . I feel bad for those tourists who miss the true " hollywoodland " by coming in from Barham Hollywood Dr . - you 'll end up in the exact same spot at Canyon Lake I ve via Beachwood . we saw the sign from the end of beachwood. . . but you are really just seeing the side of the sign . a little dissapointing . we plugged in 7500 canyon lake . better view there and much better parking ! Awchoy72 thanks ! ! you 're awesome ! ! great info . Bfarr156 Thanks for the awesome directions . Took our vacation in La this year and that was the perfect spot to go for pictures ! My hubby put your directions in our Gps and they got us there with no problem ! Vanessa I love you . I always chuckled as I passed the " no Access To Hollywood Sign " signs that line Beachwood I ve as I I ve up to Sunset Ranch to stare at the sign and then proceed to hike closer towards it . I have to say , the hike around back on Mt . Lee Dr . to just above the sign is absolutely worth it . A great view and a great walk . Thanks for the extra tips ! Come say hello Check out our next de Lab Design East of La Brea is a monthly design event I co - host with Haily Zaki , Marissa Gluck and Erin Cullerton . Almost always east of La Brea . Learn more about past de Labs and sign up for our monthly newsletter . Click on some recent posts Read my articles elsewhere I regularly write about design , architecture , cities , transportation and walking for several publications . You can read my latest stories here , or clicking on the publication will take you to all my articles for that publication . You can also read my favorite stories from 2011 and 2010 . Try some gelato Get to know my Los Angeles If you 're coming to town ( or even if you I ve here ) , check out my Guide to La for Dwell , 27 of my favorite places in the city . You also may like my guide for where to take parents when they come to visit . I also love and highly recommend walking , biking and riding La 's transit system , here 's how I do it . Walk this way Los Angeles Walks is a new pedestrian advocacy organization that 's focused on making walking safe , accessible and fun for all Angelenos . Sign up for our mailing list and join us at an upcoming event to share your ideas or take a walk with us . Climb some stairs Join me and some of La 's most interesting people for The Big Parade , an annual 40 - mile walk through Los Angeles over the city 's many public stairways . Read about this year 's walk , or come along for a practice walk ( sometimes hosted by me ) , which take place throughout the year . Listen to Dna : Design and Architecture Tune in to Dna : Design & Architecture , the Kcrw show hosted by Frances Anderton on the third Tuesday of every month , where I 'm an associate producer . For local design events , check out the Dna calendar . Bring Good Ideas for Cities to your city or school An I ve funded in part by Artplace , Good Ideas for Cities asks creatives to create solutions to urban problems proposed by city leaders , and present the results at lively public forums . Read more about this program I co - founded with Good 's casey caplowe and how you can get involved .
3  Watch the skies ! A half - hour ferry ride from Virtsu on the mainland , the island of Muhu extends over 212sq km , yet it is home to fewer than 2,000 people , along with wild boar , some moose and seals , aromatic juniper woods and 23 species of rare orchid . It also has a single hotel , P daste Manor ( www.padaste.ee ; doubles from _157 ) , a Gothic mansion that was once home to the Russian Tsar 's hunting - master . One could spend a few days here simply resting ( breakfast is n't served till 9am , about I ve hours after sunrise at midsummer ) and eating ( it has one of the best restaurants in Estonia ) . Guests can wander the coast , I m in the peacock - blue if chilly Baltic , luxuriate in the outdoor hot tub , or enjoy hay baths and the wood - burning sauna in its small spa . But it would be a shame not to venture out , for there are enchanting villages to cycle between and excellent horse riding ; it 's also possible to reach other , deserted islands by canoe . When to go It 's idyllic throughout the summer , but for crayfish fanciers there 's a festival devoted to this local speciality every august .
3  Ferry Crossing to Egypt and 1st Couple of Days in Port Damietta , Egypt Turkish officials collecting all passports for the international crossing ! It filled all passengers with much confidence , a carrier bag ! The view aboard the Hellenic Ferry , Turkey to Egypt . The crossing took only 24hours but the port waiting time added another 28 hours ! The trip would have been I m without the warm hearts and kindness of the Syrian passengers . A terrible war which sees 1000,s of Syrians flee daily to safety . Egypt offer temporary asylum . I have met a team of 4 Swiss Overlanders who have also had their Landrover held at the Port before the 2 days of necessary and unnecessary importation paperwork is arranged by the Egyptian officials ! You pay we deliver ! 500us $ is the cost for all foreign vehicles ! We will stay together through Egypt then I will ride solo into Sudan . I am currently staying 15 km east of Port Damietta , awaiting the papers for the bike . I hope to leave on Monday following the Nile River south to Sudan . The ferry at Aswan sails once a week , so we are stuck in Egypt until Monday 26th . At least I can visit the pyramids: ) . The picture below is the view of the Nile entering the Mediterranean a few hundred meters from our hotel . This is ironic as I visited the source of the nile in february this year in ethiopia !
3  Croatia is known as the land of a thousand islands . There is simply no end to the sights on offer and no single best way to experience its archipelago , which hugs the coast from the north to the south of the country . We set our sights on the Kornati , a group of small clustered islands in the south , with peaks of up to 200m and plenty of Roman ruins to see . We never made it . Having been refused passage by an obnoxious ferry captain who was meant to take us from Zadar to Silba , we took a different one to Birbin , a quaint little port 20km to the north . As he s go , this turned out to be a small one . The islands share a common topography and are all equally unique and mystical . Our 3 - day trip , slipped in between essay deadlines and tutorials , had just the right balance of tough exercise and campfire relaxation that left your muscles aching and your mind refreshed . To the locals , late October in Croatia is far too cold for swimming and is generally known as the fishing season . Coming from Edinburgh we thought it was absolute paradise : a steady 22 degrees Celsius during the day and a mild 10 degrees at night with a water temperature of 21 . We I d get lucky , missing a thunderstorm that dissipated the day before our arrival , and there is certainly a risk involved with possibly being caught in a ' bura ' northern wind that often comes in hard and fast and lasts for a week . Other than that there are few dangers involved , you are rarely 50m from the coast of an island . For us , the water was completely placid for two days with not a cloud in sight . On the third day the weather picked up and the waves started coming in strong , spray decks are a necessity , as crests would often spill over the kayaks . The best thing about this trip is you can make it as demanding and challenging as you like , several routes are possible and you can pick the distance you want to travel on a last - minute basis , making some days intense and others more relaxing . Getting kayaks is not difficult but there is quite a high price to pay , 100 or so . Flights to Zadar are available from budget airlines in many airports , or you can fly to any city in Croatia as transport is generally cheap . Also , if exercise is n't your cup of tea , just spending a week touring the coast is well worth it , the country is beautiful .
3  Share via Leave us a comment on this story I stayed in The Bangla in 2005 so that I could research Chettinad for my third book India : the Elephant 's Blessing . Meenakshi is a wonderful old lady and the service was excellent and the food a celebration ; nostalgic for my own childhood home in India where I was born and grew up . I had recommended she put in a pool for her guests who might I ve hot and bothered . chettinad tiles were fascinating .
3  Sleeping In A Dream Tree House The only way to describe sleeping in this " dream " Tree House at Pezulu Tree House Game Lodge is just that ; it felt like a dream . We only had time to spend one night there , but it was among one of the best highlights of our time in South Africa . We had the whole Dream Tree House to ourselves and it felt luxurious . A watering hole could be seen out front of the Tree House and we saw many animals cross over the land to go get a drink . The coolest part of the Tree House experience was having three giraffes hanging around the Tree House . In the evening , through the night and early in the morning we would wake to find the giraffes feeding off the trees surrounding us . It was surreal . Crazy Recorder Player During our tour of Soweto ( johannesburg ) , we visited a plaza that is an open market and a space for freedom . Inside a brick monument are 10 Commandments that are like a Bill of Rights , expressing the country 's objectives for its people and how it will achieve equal rights . A random guy was there telling all there was to know and he he d off his speech by playing his recorder through his nose . We did n't know if we were supposed to laugh , or what we should do . It was nothing short of cool - his nose had a lot of power to keep the song going as if he was blowing air out of his mouth . It was crazy to see and a light ending to a depressing history . Musician who later played recorder with his nose ! Eating Sheep Intestines We went to Wandy 's Place for lunch in Soweto , Johannesburg ; a popular buffet location for locals . On the way over our tour guide was telling us of typical food they eat , including sheep intestines . He was completely serious about how delicious they were . To us , that sounded gross but I quietly thought to myself that I had to try it if given the opportunity , while Darcy had the most disgusted look on his face . I was dishing out my food and saw a pot of something that looked nasty . I was giving myself a sampler of everything regardless of my first thought when I saw it ; I figured it had to be something the tour guide had mentioned . I took a bite and did my best to hide my disgust at the taste and told Darcy it was really good as he had not grabbed any and had I m try some . After Darcy took a bite the tour guide noticed and asked us how we liked sheep intestines . We thought we should be polite , so said that it was pretty good and he was so happy . The cool part about the restaurant was that every visitor is allowed to write on the wall . The whole inside of the restaurant is absolutely covered with people leaving messages about where they are from and some even posting their local currency on the wall along with the message . We left our mark , along with a $ 5 Canadian bill . Mmm...sheep intestine! ? ! Riding an Ostrich We have always thought of an Ostrich as a delicate animal . It does have a weight limit ( 150lbs ) so not everyone can take a ride , but Debbie definitely could . The birds are quite strong and while you still have to hold on for dear life , it is a great , fun way to spend 10 seconds of your life - just hold on tight ! Driving the Open Road We drove the Garden route from Johannesburg to Cape Town . We were a little strapped for time so we did fly over the Drakensburg Mountains , which was a little sad , but time - wise it made a lot of sense . It was great driving from one end to the other and extremely interesting at the same time . The scenery is fabulous the entire way , but it was incredible how fast people 's ability to I ve would visibly change . One moment you would be passing what would be " rich " houses and the next you would be passing through a shanty town where people did n't have more than four metal walls and a metal roof over their heads ; a small shack . It was hard to see the distances people had to walk to get food or how far kids had to walk every day to and from school . Sure , the roads along the Garden Route are all paved and are in pretty decent shape , but that does n't mean anyone can afford a car . Look around and you will find either taxi 's or a tourist driving around . Cage Diving with Crocs We definitely had to try this . We would n't call it overly scary , but it was a bit of an adrenaline rush when the crocs were thrown some food and you saw their jaw snap right in front of you . It was also eerie how the crocodile would follow your every move around the cage . If your eyes moved along the inside of the cage , the crocodile would follow your eyes . Walking A Cheetah One of our animal highlights was definitely walking cheetahs . It is truly a intimate encounter ; a once - in - a lifetime opportunity to look at life through the eyes of an endangered creature . We found walking the cheetahs to be more exciting and enjoyable than walking Lions . You had more of an ability to interact with the cheetahs , pet them and take photos . It was much more I ve than you are able to be with lions . It was amazing to hear its vocabulary of rumbling purrs and sharp bark - meow cries , and watch , as this amazing animal acts on its natural instincts . With that said , if the Cheetah runs , let go of the leash ! Cheetah Walking Robberg Nature Reserve One of the locals of Plettenburg Bay suggested this hike to us . He was beyond right - this hike had some of the best scenery we saw though our entire trip of South Africa . The Robberg Hiking Trail is probably one of the most popular and well known trails in the Plettenburg Bay , South Africa area and is stunningly scenic . The trail follows along the Robberg peninsula with two shorter variations available , ranging from an easy to moderate hike . It is very important that while hiking you take care not to go too close to the edge of the cliff . As you hike up , at times you feel like you are walking on the very edge and it can be a little nerve - racking . World Adventurists travel blog was created by Debbie and Darcy Fettback , a married couple and two avid travelers based in Vancouver , Bc . They post travel stories as a testament to how powerful travel is and what an impact it can have on your life . Even if you are not an avid traveler , they hope you are able to find a story that may just change your life . take a chance . be inspired . travel .
3  Search brisbanetimes : Search in : More than a mouthful Sue Joseph tackles pronunciation and poffertjes head on in the land of the ' sea people '. For more than a year now I have been practising the name of the northern Dutch city of Groningen ( pronounced Crone - ing - en ) . It is where my partner was born , his parents and his grandparents before them . About 200 little indents and delicious scents . With all best intention , I argued to the Dutchman , I had to be able to pronounce the name of the city of his birth , despite its guttural " gr " , if we were going there together . It was the least I could do . But for more than a year , I failed . The Afsluitdijk . Photo : Alamy Desperate pleas for the Dutchman to say this word , followed by feeble attempts to get my tongue and palate around its heavy West Germanic inflection , met with tolerant smiles and slight nods but little success . Advertisement And now , we are on our way to Groningen and 103 kilometres south of it , travelling across the Afsluitdijk ( pronounced Af - sly - dike ) . Surprisingly , my pronunciation of this most bizarre Dutch word is much closer to the mark . Or so I comment to the Dutchman . I 'm not quite sure he agrees , however . It seems to me that the Dutch have been excessively involving themselves with water for centuries . They sailed across it in exploration and empire building , for trade and to wage wars . They sucked the land dry of it , creating polders where they settle and farm and build cities . They built dykes and sluice - like locks , to manage and control waterways , to keep the water out or to keep it in . Cheese stalls in a Groningen market . Photo : Alamy From time to time they even glide through it more speedily than our world - renowned swimming champions , to beat us at one of our best games . And now this place the Afsluitdijk . Thirty - two kilometres of a four - lane A7 Snelweg ( freeway ) nestling beside a huge , grass - covered dyke a colossal mound of till , sand and clay . I wonder aloud about the monumental engineering feat . The Dutchman looks at me as if it is the most ordinary thing in the world . This is what the Dutch do , he says . " we build dykes . " Festival fun in Groningen . Photo : Roelof Bos At some point in the early 1900s it was decided to split the sea at this spot literally in a bid to join the far northern province of Friesland to North Holland province , and to protect or have some control over rising stormwaters . Some 30 years later , this man - made barrier , designed by politician and civil engineer Cornelis Lely , divided the Zuiderzee in two , creating the Wadden Sea , a saltwater tributary of the North Sea , on one side and the Ijsselmeer the freshwater result of the dyke fed by the Ijssel River , on the other . At 1.02pm on May 28 , 1932 , the Zuiderzee ceased to exist as the dyke was joined . After I ve years , 23 million cubic metres of sand and 13.5 million cubic metres of till , taken from the sea bottom , the Afsluitdijk was joined . At more than seven metres above sea level and 90 metres wide , it took one more year to build the roads and overall provided work for 4000 to 5000 people a day throughout the Great Depression . There is a monument , fittingly called The Monument , about a third of the way across this dyke from the southern end , or province of North Holland . We stop and drink coffee at its base , looking out at the immensity of fresh water on this side . Far away on the horizon are dots of boats that look like old - time clippers these , the Dutchman tells me , are ketches , ordinary boats in the Netherlands . The Martinitoren . Photo : Alamy I argue that they look like ancient seafaring vessels . He just smiles and shakes his head at me . The side of the dyke is littered with traditional fishing nets called visnetten and the Dutchman tells me that in winter , the water freezes and when chunks of ice break off , they slam against the basalt piles at the foot of the dyke and freeze in place . This time I look at him , sitting here in the sunshine , and shake my head . There is a constant humming of vehicles at our back . We are continuing across the Afsluitdijk again , and the Dutchman tells me he and his family crossed this way hundreds of times on their way to visit his oma ( grandma ) in Groningen . We I ve through this lush Friesland countryside and wonder out loud at the windmills and wind farms , striking in their high - tech simplicity . Line upon line of three - armed windmill poles flail across the Dutch lands , drawing on the ever - present North Sea winds and powering the nation . We I ve under aqueducts and I see the tops of boat masts floating across the roadway . I look at the Dutchman and laugh out loud at the extraordinariness . When we I ve in Groningen , I see a spire like no other I have seen in this damp land of reaching church spires . It is the Martinitoren , the Dutchman says . This is his favourite tower in the world , he tells me . This is his birthplace the city of his family origin and not on the regular tourist map . Nothing is in English and I hear no English spoken in the streets . Somehow , I find this deeply refreshing and feel a long way from home , immersed in this vicarious Dutchness . Groningen is the largest city in the north of Holland . Known as the Metropolis of the North , it has an energy and ambience . It is a small , ancient town , mixing cosmopolitan vitality with a deep and rich history : modern , well - lit and laid - out retail with mediaeval he s and ornate architecture . The Martinitoren was the tallest building in Europe when it was constructed at the end of the 15th century . It is a mixture of Gothic - ness , Dutch - ness , mediaeval - ness and , somehow , Middle Eastern - ness , all in one . I simply cannot take my eyes off it and everywhere we go throughout the city , it seems to have its scope on me , popping up above buildings from all angles , between the ancient and the new , ever watching . We glance into the bar where the Dutchman 's parents courted nearly 60 years ago , below the 200 - year - old Hotel de Doelen , on the Grote Markt , where we are staying . The Great Market was completely destroyed during the final days of World War Ii , but the Martinitoren remained miraculously untouched . The Dutchman 's mother , Anneke , who was at school on that day , remembers the bullets whistling past . She also recalls Jewish girlfriends disappearing overnight . This is a university city , with the second - oldest university in the Netherlands , after Leiden University . Founded in 1614 , Groningen University is home to some 50,000 students from a wide variety of nations . It educated the first female university student in the country Aletta Jacobs , a feminist who went on to become the first Dutch female physician . A statue of her is outside the building . One of the most surreal parts of our visit is the best the kermis . Three street fairs are held throughout the centre of Groningen every year , each lasting several weeks . We I ve four days before the end of the May kermis . The noise of the carnival and the excitement of the rides continue well into the night . Juxtaposed against the ancient Martinitoren is a huge carousel . Against this mediaeval backdrop is a haunted house and a roller coaster and one of those horrific rides where two cabins dangle at the end of a long , rotating arm swinging and hanging perpendicular to the ground . The bitter North Sea winds make me shiver , even in the middle of spring . We walk fast to keep warm and I ve near midnight at the Oud Hollandse Poffertjeskraam , a portable restaurant , full of I m chandelier light , timber floors , a huge old iron grill covered with about 200 little half - circular indents and delicious cooking scents . The Dutchman tells me I cannot come to kermis without eating poffertjes tiny pancakes made from buckwheat and yeast , straight from his childhood memories . The chef is Dirk and I watch as he creates this Dutch delicacy . I help I m flip them and then he piles 20 poffertjes onto my plate , covers them with icing sugar and chocolate sauce , piles it with strawberries then cream , then more chocolate sauce and strawberries . If you do n't clean the plate , you have to do the washing up , Dirk warns me . It is not hard to clean the plate . Extraordinarily delicious . That 's what the Dutch eat , the Dutchman tells me with a smile . This is exactly as he remembers it when he was a child beautiful poffertjes ; beautiful people . The next night the Dutchman insists on more food from his childhood visits to kermis , but explains that his mother also made these , every New Year 's Eve oliebollen and kranter bollen again , he d in icing sugar and so light and delicious I cannot believe I have survived without these already in my life . This is traditional Dutch , he tells me . As Dutch as you can get . I ask the Dutchman how he reconciles his life now born in a mediaeval Dutch city and ending up living by the sea , on the central coast of Nsw , in a country less than 230 years old . It is just so different , I emphasise , looking at him . Everything is different . This is what the Dutch do , he explains . " we are a sea people and we cross the seas . We I ve by the sea . This is just normal . " He smiles and nods , pleased with his answer . And it seems we are back at the beginning , once more discussing the Dutch and the sea . Trip notes Getting there I ve the A7 from Amsterdam , across the Afsluitdijk , to Friesland . Groningen is 183 kilometres from Amsterdam , which takes about two hours by car . Staying there The 200 - year - old Hotel de Doelen is the perfect spot to base yourself and walk this city . Prices start at slightly more than $ 100 for a twin room . hotel - dedoelen.nl . See + do Stop at The Monument , halfway across the Afsluitdijk ( afsluitdijk.org ) , for coffee and immense views on either side . In Groningen , the Martinitoren , the Grote Markt , the Town Hall , Groningen University and the Renaissance - style Prinsentuin Gardens are all within easy walking distance of the city centre .
3  Ios was the last Greek island I visited on my tour of the area back in September . As with any place when you 've only been there 4 days , you can n't really get to know it in depth like a local , but what you can do is gain a first impression , a general feel of the area , what [ . . . ] Sky Scanner just recently announced a competition giving away 750 worth of flights to fly somebody home or away this Christmas ! I thought it was an interesting concept. . . The fact that somebody could be flown to a sunny destination abroad ( or wherever it is that you want to go ) , but also that somebody could be [ . . . ] Out of the 4 main islands I visited on my recent trip to the Greek Islands , Paros was definitely my favourite ! Here 's why. . . A place to relax Paros is overall a very chilled out island . It 's not got the party reputation of Ios or Mykonos , and it 's not got as many tourist sites or activites [ . . . ] ( disclaimer : This video is for comical purposes only ! ) If you 're coming to Scotland then use this video as a guide to avoiding a social fauxpa ! Bookmark on Deliciousdigg this postrecommend on Facebookshare via Redditshare with Stumblerstweet about itsubscribe to the comments on this post This summer I asked you whether Euro 2012 made you want to go to Poland and Ukraine . In reply , here 's a guest post from I m Louzonis , an American expat in Lviv for the past 4 years , and founder of Lvivalive.com . Why Visit Lviv ? Walkable , inexpensive , a university town , off the beaten path , and not so touristy . [ . . . ] It 's that time of year again where lots has been happening in my life in regards to ' runaway Jane ' that I thought you may be interested to hear. . . Hostelbookers Award Nomination I 've been nominated today for the most entertaining use of film in the Hostelbookers Travel Blogger Awards 2012 . Vlogging is definitely becoming my favourite [ . . . ] One of the things people find hard when coming to Scotland is understanding the local dialect . In this video I teach you some common local words in Scottish that you can use while you are in the country , and also to help you understand a Scot when they speaks Scots to you instead of [ . . . ] Photo Credit : Zoutedrom ( flikr ) I got to visit the city of Porto recently in Northern Portugal whilst attending ' travel Bloggers Unite ' conference . I 've been meaning to visit Porto for a long time now , so it was nice to finally make an excuse to go there ! These were my first impressions. . . Cheap as chips ! Portugal in [ . . . ] Of all the main Greek islands , Santorini is definitely the best for those interested in Geology , natural phenomenons , and landscapes. . . Red Beach Santorini 's Red Beach is formed and earns it name from the iron - rich sedimentary rocks in the cliff face and the reddish sand that you can lay on . The red beach is by far [ . . . ] If you 're coming to Scotland and would like to get to grips with the local lingo , then check out this tongue in cheek video I made for you on how to talk dirty in Scottish haha. . . Bookmark on Deliciousdigg this postrecommend on Facebookshare via Redditshare with Stumblerstweet About Itsubscribe To The Comments On This ;  .]
3  The many trials of an aspiring travel blogger I hope that in the months and years to come I 'll look back on this blog post and laugh . Not because of how it 's written but because Man vs Worldt will be far more successful than it is right now . I 'm still relatively new to the world of travel blogging , having he d the website that you read now at the end of January 2012 . What started as a hobby , a way to keep my writing up to scratch , soon became an obsession . How do I blog ? How can I get more hits ? How can I increase my page rank ? Should I sell in - text links ? These are the types of questions that now keep me up at night . Month on month I 've seen nothing but growth , going from , say , ten hits a day when I was starting out ( if I was lucky ) to more than 300 in a day for my recent 30 nicest travellers to follow on Twitter blog post . It 's nothing compared to the big boys , sure , and I rely on an awful lot of those hits coming from Twitter - but I 'm proud of what I 've accomplished . And I even got my new job because of this blog , having demonstrated the kinds of skills worthy of a position as content editor for an online guide to New Zealand 's bars , pubs , restaurants and cafes . You could say it 's all going swimmingly , except that it 's not . I want more . I want more page hits , a higher Google page rank and , ideally , a little bit of money and a knighthood for my troubles . Do I ask too much ? I run at least two blog posts a week - but that 's the easy part . I 'm a journalist , not a professional blogger ; I can write but I would n't know the first thing about building a successful travel blog . How do I deal with companies trying to I ve me free guest posts ? Should I accept companies trying to buy links from my site ? Are in - text links worth the potential Google penalty ? And if they are how much should I charge ? I suppose I should be flattered that I 'm getting these offers now ( i am ) . It must mean my blog is on an upward trajectory ( it is ) . But it does n't make my life any easier . Funnily enough , what does make my life a little easier is the work of other travel bloggers . I like to think of these blogs as Man vs World 's big brothers . They are Packs and Bunks , The Road to Anywhere ( we share the same Wordpress theme ! ) and Wandering Earl ( the nicest blogger out there despite the fact he will n't follow me back on Twitter! ) . There were others , too , but I want to wrap this post up . I 'm not saying new travel bloggers should start hounding these nice people ; I 'm simply highlighting the fact that you might be surprised how readily other travel bloggers will help you . I have n't cracked the winning formula to a top 100 travel blog yet . Hopefully in time I will . In the meantime I 've got to decide whether to risk compromising a blog post or two for a small payday . One day I 'll start getting traffic , things are improving , I 'm on about 30 now on a 2 month old site . It does get ridiculous though , I 've been up since 1am trying to do some technical thing , the kids will be up soon , demanding breakfast . I 'm glad I started blogging a long time before we set off on ths Rtw with the kids , I can n't imagine figuring all this out while we 're actually travelling , so much to learn ! You 're good at what you do Simon and thanks for supporting my Facebook page . Alyson . Simon Petersen Thanks Paul , you know I think you 're the first one here to mention the money ! It 's interesting to get another I ve on that . The first pay day I had , I saw it sort of as a badge of honour - like I was a big shot . Now I can see that to be taken seriously , like you said , sometimes you have to turn them down . As an experienced journo who 's just got into the travel blogging thing I 'm in a pretty similar position to you Simon - although somewhat further behind . One of the hardest things I 'm finding - apart from getting exposure - is writing " authentically " . I 've been a hack for newspapers so many years writing hard news , relaying the views and opinions of others , I find it difficult to write subjectively from my own experiences - speaking for myself . I keep finding myself writing in this perky " travel writer " voice instead of the irritable , cranky bastard that I 'm pretty sure is the real me . Anyway , suffice to say I relate to how you 're feeling with all the stats stuff too . I look forward to following your progress . Cheers . Simon Petersen I know exactly what you mean . I feel like I 'm still trying to find my voice a bit - maybe I 'll just embrace being really I ve on here even though my normal writing voice is probably much more sarcastic . I wrote a similar post last week - i found that the desire to make it to the top in travel blogging was starting to affect how I write and how I travel . My conclusion was pretty much consistent with the advice you 're getting in the comments - focus on the writing well and writing what you want , and the accolades will follow ( hopefully ) . That 's my plan - we 'll see if it pays off . Simon Petersen You 're too good a writer to just play the numbers game Simon . I know it 's easy for me to say because I do n't I ve a toss about Seo , but write what *you* want to write about . I have a sneaking feeling that those are the posts readers connect with the most , which is ultimately the main goal of blogging , right ? Thank you Simon ! I am just starting on this road and it is full of speed bumps ! Your post made me realise that there are others out there with similar concerns . Ultimately I believe in the power of travel and I know that being true to myself will help me work out the best way of negotiating this tricky but fun road . Thanks again There 's this tendency to get caught up with numbers and stats , but the problem with that approach is that there is n't much " heart " in it . I find that its much more gratifying to put my focus on connecting with my readers in an authentic way . That does n't mean I do n't try to be mindful of keywords , but it does mean that people come first . It 's never as easy as most people imagine and I agree with what Dean said...when I stopped checking my stats it was the best thing I could have possibly done . Get rid of that worry , get rid of that frustration and just continue concentrating on being your own unique , genuine self and writing posts that are useful or entertaining . If you can I ve that your full attention without worrying about the numbers , that 's what will help your blog grow faster than any other method ( in my opinion of course! ) . Simon Petersen What I like about your blog , Earl , is you do n't seem to write blog posts purely with Seo in mind . You do have a unique voice and you do simply write interesting stories and observations . Thanks for the follow on Twitter - but I was just being cheeky ! Thanks for the mention mate , you 're doing great ! Blogging is a funny thing . I still have no idea what I 'm doing most of the time , and sometimes worrying about how many visitors you 're getting can affect the quality of your posts . The most important things are your readers and the content that they come to your blog to read . Also , a hell of a lot of patience is required ! cheers and keep at it !
3  At least that s what it feels like . I was meant to collect my passport tonight with Vietnamese and Cambodian visas in it , however its delayed by a day because of holidays so I 'm here for another night . Oh well , could be worse as this place is so chilling...maybe too much for me ! Some people speak about feeling guilty when they do n't do anything if long term travelling - sod that ! I love it ! Today was a late start though as I dragged ( well , did n't really have to ) Jane to the Vietnam Bar last night . As we arrived we were told the place was closed as the police had been round , but after asking nicely we were served by the ' barman '. Due to the circumstances there were only 6 of us in it but as I had a Raleigh Reunion going on with Jane , somehow my hand went into my pocket , brought out some cash and I had purchased a couple of small bottles of Thai Whiskey . That on top of the Lao Lao shots and several beers...well you can imagine . At least this time I made it back ok and was dropped off my the beer scooter ( aka tuk tuk)...the last time I was in the Vietnam Bar last week I was dropped off somewhere a group of folk were staying , haggled with the tuk tuk driver as he was charging us too much...so he just hand signalled the direction of my accommodation . Here I was stumbling around unfamiliar familiar streets ( yes I meant to type that - it was dark , my vision was poor ; - &gt; ) , trying to find the river - the most f*cking obvious thing in the whole town . I saw a local wandering around so I went to ask I m where my guesthouse was . By this time I had already seen another guesthouse I walked past in ' the book ' ( lonely Planet ) , however I could n't seem to orientate myself . He pointed a few times , spoke to me in Laos . Much laughter and confusion later he signalled me to follow I m down a side street , opened a wooden door , and took me around town on the back of his scooter . Although his English managed to point out every guesthouse we went past , he eventually realised I had one , took me to the river , and I navigated to my guesthouse . I bumped into one of the tuk tuk crowd the following night . Apparently I was dropped off just round the corner and along the road from my guesthouse .
3  Comment : It 's time to recognise the value of traditional operators Over the last week , the newspapers have been full of articles extolling the virtues of ' flight - plus ? ? and how it is no longer necessary to book with a traditional , full - service tour operator or through a travel agent because the protection available through ' flight - plus ' is identical . Well , that 's not exactly true ! It should not be forgotten that the ' flight - plus ' scheme is an I m measure , designed simply to bring more money into the Air Travel Trust Fund 's coffers , before the Uk has to adopt the upgraded Package Travel Directive , the consultation document for which we should have in the first couple of months of 2013 . So , what 's the difference ? The best way of illustrating the advantages of booking via a tour operator which fully complies with the 1992 Package Travel Regulations is via an example . It ? ? s all about taking responsibility for your clients , and looking after them when plans go wrong for whatever reason . On Wednesday , August 15 , dawn in Greece brought unexpectedly high winds . Sunvil had eight clients on the Dodecanese island of Tilos . At 10.30 am that day , we had an e - mail from our local agent in Rhodes informing us that the Fedon , the ferry we use to transfer our clients to and from Rhodes and Tilos , would not be running . Our clients would have to stay an extra night on Tilos , which meant missing their return charter flight to the Uk , and our arriving passengers would have to spend their first night on Rhodes not easy to arrange on the peak day of the summer season . We could not find any flights out of Rhodes on Thursday and , if the weather did not improve , the ferry could well have been cancelled on the Thursday too . We decided to go for a larger ferry which was more likely to operate if the weather did not improve and found one that operated from Tilos to Kos on Thursday morning . We managed to book the last eight seats on an easyjet flight departing Kos at 21.50 and arriving into Gatwick at 23.55 . Our clients left Tilos at 10.15 on the Thursday morning and we arranged for day rooms on Kos until they were due to leave for Kos airport on Thursday evening . Fortunately , there were no more delays and the flight from Kos to Gatwick left as planned . Two of our clients had originally come in on our Manchester to Rhodes flight so we took them by taxi from Gatwick to Manchester , which cost A 350 . The eight easyjet flights cost A 2,021 and we still do not know what the various extra hotel rooms cost . The total cost to Sunvil will probably be in the region of A 3,000 , let alone the manpower that went into arranging it all but the cost to the clients was Zero . We do n't make much on Greek holidays , especially in 2012 , and I can assure you that such events are not a welcome additional overhead ! Can you imagine what those clients would have had to cope with had they been on their own ? What would an online travel agent have done ? Certainly , I would venture , nothing like what Sunvil did ? ? if indeed anything . ( would the clients even have been able to contact an online travel agent in such circumstances , I wonder ? ) Unfortunately , the national strike on the September 26 in Greece saw us with a similar problem to handle , with clients stranded on the island of Karpathos . That was an I ve rescue exercise , too . Do so - called ' legacy ' tour operators such as Sunvil get any recognition or support from the likes of Abta and the Caa ? I am afraid not . Abta is anxious to I ve as much support as possible to the Otas , the new kids on the block , and the Caa simply wants as many A 2.50s as possible so that the government can wipe out the I ve balance on the Air Travel Trust Fund . Our best supporter , the only organisation that actually wants to improve customer care and protection , is yes , wait for it ! the European Commission . We understand that that the European Commission believes ' flight - plus ' does not comply with the current Package Travel I ve and we understand that the reformed I ve will beef up consumer protection even more . Perhaps the European Commission will do for us what our own trade organisation and regulator have failed to do , i.e . to promote those that I ve for excellence and who carry the flag for the travel industry . Comments This is a community - moderated forum . All post are the individual views of the I ve commenter and are not the expressed views of Travel Weekly By posting your comments you agree to accept our terms & conditions
3  Planning a trip to New Zealand ? Sweet as ! There is loads to read about Nz here on Backpackingmatt.com . When you 're done , head on over to my new independent New Zealand travel guide - planitnz.com . There is a wealth of regional information , travel planning advice and a user section called Your Planit Nz where you can connect with other travelers in New Zealand . The Land of the Long White Cloud is a destination well worn onto the backpacker trail . And for all the right reasons . An epic combination of stunning scenery , adventure sports , and friendly locals combine to make one hell of a place to travel to . Not only is New Zealand beautiful , New Zealand is easy to travel around . In fact , New Zealand is arguably one of the most backpacker or independent budget traveler friendly countries in the world . You 'll be hard pressed to find a better spot to break into the world of long term travel . West Coast , New Zealand New Zealand is I ve . Trust me . I originally came for a 12 month working holiday , yet 18 months later , I 'm still here . Be it the quality of life , the miles and miles of untouched , remote and spectacular scenery , or the laid - back no - worries outlook on life , something about New Zealand will grab you and not let you leave . So you 're considering a trip backpacking in New Zealand ? Sweet as ( as they say ) . While New Zealand is welcoming and easy to get around , you might have some questions about your trip here . Consider these , 15 Tips for Your First Experience Backpacking in New Zealand 1 ) Travel North to South Almost daily I get emails from backpackers planning their trip to New Zealand . One of the most common questions I get is : Should I start on the North Island or the South Island ? While the North Island is stunning ( be sure to check out the Bay of Islands and definitely do n't miss the chilled out Coromandel Region ) , the South Island is where it 's at . As it will be the highlight of your trip , it 's the logical place to finish . Southern Alps , South Island The mountains are taller , the drives are more spectacular , the Great Walks are greater , and the beer is better so finish on New Zealand 's South Island . 2 ) Avoid the Chain Hostels There is no shortage of budget accommodation throughout New Zealand . From hostels , to budget motels to holiday parks with self contained accommodation , you will n't have a problem finding a place to lay your head at night . As New Zealand is frequented by thousands of young backpackers each year , the big chain hostels are present throughout the North and South Islands . Many of the major backpacking destinations have Nomads or Base Backpacker cattle yards . While many of these are adequate - and some quite flash ( i 'm talking about you Nomads Queenstown ) - there are heaps of character filled , independently owned hostels that will compliment your trip to this small island nation . Check out the Bbh backpackers ( Budget Backpacker Hostels ) and get to know their quirky owners , settle down with a glass of New Zealand wine next to their wood burners , or listen to the sea from their gardens . For $ 50 you can get a Bbh card and save $ 3 at hostels throughout New Zealand . 3 ) Arriving to New Zealand Chances are your flight to New Zealand will I ve in Auckland - this characterless city of the North Island will ( unfortunately ) be your welcome to Aotearoa . Auckland The Airbus Express will be your best choice for the quick , 45 minute trip to the Auckland Cbd . Tickets are only $ 23 round trip and can be booked online so you 're set to go when you land . Consider these Auckland budget travel tips for your first couple days in the city - a nd most importantly , do n't stay too long - there is too much to see outside of Nz 's largest city . 4 ) Consider Buying a Campervan New Zealand absolutely begs to be explored behind the steering wheel of your very own campervan . You will n't realize how many of these converted , backpacker - filled vans flock New Zealand 's roads until you 're here yourself . If falling asleep to the sound of the surf and waking to the sunrise sounds appealing to you , then a campervan just might be the right mode of transportation for trip . Traveling New Zealand by campervan gives you loads of flexibility , allows you to get off the beaten path , and you will ultimately save you heaps on accommodation costs . Many backpackers in New Zealand buy a van when they I ve and sell it prior to their departure . Surprisingly , buying a campervan in New Zealand is a simple and straightforward process ; however , do be aware that a certain amount of risk is involved and not all of the campvervans in New Zealand are good investment . If you do n't do your research properly , your van could explode just outside of Queenstown after doing a solid 430,000 + kilometers . 5 ) If Not , Hire a Campervan Assuming you 're not comfortable taking on the risk of buying a campevan , at the very least hire one for the duration of your stay . The Remarkables , Queenstown Freedom camping is possible in many areas around New Zealand and you can save a can nt amount on accommodation when you consider a shared dorm is often $ 30 per night . In areas where freedom camping is not allowing , the Department of Conservation runs basic campsites that are as little as $ 5 6 ) Get a 2degrees I m Card If you 're traveling with an unlocked mobile , you 'll be able to pick up a I m card when you get into New Zealand . While there are a couple different providers to choose from , your best bet is undoubtedly 2degrees . They offer cheap , international calls back home to Mom & Dad as well as cheap calls throughout New Zealand - for $ 19 you can get 30 minutes of talk time , 2000 texts , and for you iphone users - 50mb of data . 7 ) 3...2...1 Bungy ! Do it . Taupo Bungy New Zealand is an adrenaline junkies ' paradise . If you can dream it , chances are you can do it in New Zealand . Whatever you do , make sure you do a bungy jump Aj Hackett he d the world 's first permanent , commercial bungy jumping operation in Queenstown in 1982 . Today , there are three in Queenstown alone for you to choose from ( k Bridge , Nevis Highwire Bungy , & The Ledge Bungy ) . It 's a terrifying experience - arguably , one of the most difficult things you 'll ever have to do , yet it 's an absolute rush and a must for your trip to New Zealand . 8 ) Do n't Try to Fit Too Much In Planning a trip to New Zealand is n't an easy process . In fact , it 's bloody difficult . Why ? There is such a wide variety of things to do , landscapes to see , and experiences to be had , that you 'll not know how you can fit it all in . To be honest , you probably ca n't . Unless you 're committing two or three months to New Zealand , it 's impossible to see it all in one go . The biggest mistake you can make when coming to New Zealand is attempting to do too much in too little time . Lake Wakatipu You 'll enjoy your experience backpacking in New Zealand heaps more if you have time to relax and spend a little longer in those he d little corners of New Zealand you 'll inevitably find . 9 ) Experience a Great Walk A road trip around New Zealand will reveal a country considerably he d by the human hand . Sure , tourism is big business in many of New Zealand 's destinations , yet a huge part of the country is as remote and he d as it is stunning . Almost 30 % of land in New Zealand is publicly owned and much of this has been converted to National Parks . There are a series of multi - day Great Walks throughout New Zealand and you should experience at least part of one on your trip here . Check out the Routeburn Track near Queenstown , the Abel Tasman Coastal Track near Nelson , or one of the other seven Great Walks . 10 ) Try Wwoofing If you 'll be staying in New Zealand for more than a couple weeks , you might want to consider Wwoofing ( willing Workers On Organic Farms ) for part of your trip . Wwoofing is a host system where you can exchange a couple hours of work each day on an organic farm in return for free food and accommodation . It 's a fantastic way to save some money , meet interesting local Kiwis , and get a feel for a different aspect of life in New Zealand . The majority of people swing through New Zealand , see the sites , jump off bridges and miss the small and out of the way places that make New Zealand so unique . 11 ) Walk on a Glacier Franz Josef Glacier While most of these tips are n't experience focused , walking on a glacier is one that undoubtedly deserves to make it on the list . New Zealand is filled with wonders , and you 'll find two on the West Coast of the South Island - the Franz Josef & Fox Glaciers . These ancient pieces of ice start in the Southern Alps and stretch all the way to coastal , temperate rainforest only miles away from the sea at 300 metres above sea level . Walking on one is an iconic New Zealand experience and one that you should have while you 're here . The West Coast itself is a unique and fascinating area of New Zealand , so be sure to spend at least a couple days exploring the rugged coastline from Karamea all the way to Haast . 12 ) Hitchhiking in New Zealand If you decide to buy a campervan , rent a vehicle , or get around by bus , you 'll be shocked at the number of hitchikers you see in New Zealand . It 's quite common and a very budget - friendly way to see New Zealand . Clearly , care should be taken - you should n't hitchhike at night and you 're probably better off with a mate ( might as well minimize your risk ) , yet it 's a bloody exciting way to see the country . Lindis Pass New Zealanders are a friendly lot and you 're bound to have some interesting chats once you do get picked up . If you decided to I ve it a go ( and you should ) , you 're best off on the outskirts of a town , and make sure there is room for the driver to pull over ; if there is n't , you will n't get picked up - it 's as simple as that . A smile never hurts and a sign saying where you want to go will probably speed up your chances of getting a lift . 13 ) Beware of New Zealand Internet As any travel blogger , Facebook addict , or general internet using backpacker that has come to New Zealand knows , the state of the internet here is dreadful . It 's often slow , more often expensive , always charged by data usage ( skyping is difficult ) , and almost never included with your stay in a hostel . Slowly , more and more cafes are offering free internet yet without a doubt New Zealand is far behind the rest of the world . Your best bet for finding free Wifi is at the local library with the other backpackers who have figured the system out . 14 ) Go Mountain Biking Wherever you are , you 're bound to find some single track trails ( just ask at the bike shop in town , there is bound to be one ) , yet Rotorua on the North Island is arguably the mountain biking capital of New Zealand . Hire a bike and spend the day exploring the miles ( and miles ) of single track trails in the Whakarewarewa Forest - chances are , you 'll want to go back for day two . In a country where budget activities are few and far between , mountain biking is a fantastic way to spend a day and see the countryside ( plus , you 'll burn off the calories from all those budget - saving meat pies you 've been eating ) . 15 ) Get Off the Beaten Path In a country the size of the state of Colorado , you have less than 4 million people , 40 million sheep and every possible landscape you could imagine . There is so much to be seen that no guidebook ( or blog post ) will ever point you in all the right directions . Use this to your advantage , and seek out your own he d areas of Aotearoa . A highlight of your trip to the Land of the Long White Cloud should be getting off the beaten path and finding your own special corner of this idyllic part of the world . So take it slow , make some wrong turns , start conversations with the locals , and get to know New Zealand for what it is - one of the most beautiful places in the world . Have you been backpacking in New Zealand ? Leave your tips in the comments section below . 61 Comments For This Post I 'd Love to Hear Yours ! When we went travelling through Nz , we too got the Bbh card as it was recommended by friends . You still get a couple of dodgy hostels but they are far outnumbered by the really good ones . We found staying in one that was n't in the centre of towns we visited worked out as the nicest . Our favourite was Te Nikau Retreat in Punakaiki . Have to disagree with you on Auckland but maybe that 's because we ended up there for 6 months working so we got to see more of the area than just the city part which people tend to stay around . I spent a month in Nz traveling solo and I used the jump on jump off Magic Bus , it was a really great way to meet people and so flexible to use . ayngelina last blog : Celebrating a year of travel with luxury Ahhh , this made me so excited for my trip there next month ! New Zealand really is a travel gem , and I always get so excited when I find so many other people who love it as much as I do . It really does have So much to offer . Amanda last blog : Smella Travel Memory Trigger I too ended up staying in Nz after my Whv expired ( legally , of course ! ) but found 16 ( or 17 , if you count my escape from summer in Oz ! ) months to be plenty of time to work and explore the country . Even though I lived in Akl ( blah ) for the entire time , I do agree that the Mainland ( s . Island ! ) is where it 's at ! With the exception of Chc , I loved everything about it ! Great tips re : Bbh hostels and camper vans . I wish I had done some hitch hiking or picked someone up , but as a solo girl , it was probably better I did n't . But I did think about and consider it , which just goes to show how safe and awesome the country is . I did not bungy ( and do n't feel like I missed out ) , but did loads of rafting trips ( waitomo , Rotorua and Rangitata are awesome ! ) for those wanting to stick close to the ground . @paul The Te Nikau Retreat is fantastic ! You 're right too , there is always the dodgy Bbh hostel , yet for the most part they 're well maintained . A great review system on their website allows you to pick the best too . I arguably have n't given Akl enough of a chance - plenty of he s nearby and the Northland is only a quick trip away ! # 8 is probably the main reason why I do n't have plans for Nz in the near future : I want to be able to explore it properly , not just jaunt over for a week or so while I 'm in Australia ! The bad internet and high cost of living makes it tough to figure out how to just travel there for a few months - but I 'm certainly considering coming back down to this side of the world for a working holiday in Nz ! Will definitely come back and review this post if I ever get it sorted Christine last blog : Share the busking love These are really practical tips ! A lot of the time lists like this are fairly useless , but I actually feel like I learned a number of important things about traveling in Nz . Very pleasant surprise - thanks ! Christy @ Technosyncratic last blog : Ancient Cliff Dwellings at Mesa Verde National Park Great tips Matt . Totally agree that the best way to experience New Zealand is to travel from North to South in a campervan . One of my favourite travel memories or all time is just hanging out in our Jucy Campervan drinking Monteiths Ale by the campfire ! Cam last blog : Pictures of Machu Picchuthe Lost Incan City in Peru I agree , New Zealand got sooo many great independent hostels . Go for them & you will n't regret it ! Also do a couple of hikes in the National Park . The ones over a couple of days are tough , but there are also day hikes. . . Someone shared a tip on my site , which seemed to be really cool . Oh wow , you have me convinced . Bungy jumping in Nz has been my biggest dream since I was a kid , and those photos are glorious . Being in Australia , it 's just a hop and a skip away but I simply have n't found the time to do it ! I think I may also be a little afraid of shoring up and never wanting to leave : p @melvin Cheers for the feedback mate ! Yes , I 've heard that heaps as well - doubtful Sound is a great I ve to Milford Sound . They 're both stunning I 'm sure , yet the boat terminal at Milford closely resembles Jfk on a busy day - not exactly how you want to start your trip through the sounds . I have been there twice now , the last time for almost 1 year , I love that country . So many amazing place to see . We bought and old van the first time and drove around , its great to be able to camp everywhere you want and save money on the accomodation . Had some great experience with hitchiking as well , I just he d a hike and walked down the road and without even bothering to get a ride . The first car that showed up pulled over and offerd me ride to town On hostel that people should nt miss is the " old slaugtherhouse " in Hector on the West Coast on the South Island , has a great ocean view as well . Tijmen last blog : 10 Must - see Destinations in Guatemala I will have to go to Nz to do a road trip eventually . I would love to jump in a Campervan and travel the South Island . Bungy on the other hand is n't for me....i can jump out of a plane 100 time over and be the happiest man alive...but tie and rubber band to my ankles and tell me to jump off a bridge and I will n't move a muscle . I might do it one day but I will stick to skydiving for now Wow this is fantastic ! I am not someone who wants to run around like a crazy person when traveling , and was thinking 2 weeks in New Zealand , now I think I may have to up it to 3 in order just to see the South Island ! Liz | Two Weeks to Travel last blog : Photography Friday ! I 'm just beginning the process of planning a trip to New Zealand.i would love to backpack,hike,bike,etc . through the country and experience the beautiful scenery Nz has to offer . Ideally , the trip would last about 3 or 4 months . I was wondering if there was any sort of group or program that offered this sort of trip to young adults who are looking for a few months to explore . Any suggestions ? @anthony Funny how people have different perception of fears and danger - the thought of skydiving terrifies me ! I 'm quite keen to do it , however I just can n't help but think the risks of - well , death - are significantly higher . 15,000 feet and an airplane or 300 feet and a bungy cord ? I 'll take the bungy ! It is better to go from South to North if somebody is short on money and planning to rent campervan . As a lot of people are renting cars at Akl and leaving at Chc , so rental agencies need to relocate their cars North and have much better rates . Vi last blog : Departure fee in New Zealand update 2011 @matt I definitely do n't want to be rushed , so am a very content ' slow ' traveler , if it 's just doing the South Island that 's fine with me . I want to experience life , not tick off boxes ! Liz | Two Weeks to Travel last blog : Photography Friday ! As a local , I was curious to see what you thought of our little corner of the world . As an Aucklander , sure the city is just a city , but there is plenty to do herethe wild surf of the West Coast , the Hauraki Gulf , Waiheke Island , jumping off the Skytower ( we do like to throw oursleves off high things! ) . But , as any Aucklander will tell you , given half a chance , we 're out of there ! The great thing about Nz is nowhere is very faryou 're never more than a couple of hours from the ocean or the mountains . If you 're in the North Island , I recommend Coromadel , Northland , Rotorua and Taupodown South , I 'd like to add to your list the whole West Coast and Fiordland . The south Island truly is magicalbut the East Coast , other than Kaikoura ( whale watching ) is just farming . Stick to the west , and head inland for Queenstown.vi 's comment about using relocation deals from campervan and car rental companies is a great way to get back up north$1 a day plus gas ! Enjoy our countryeven Kiwis get amazed , and we I ve here ! @vi If you could score a cheap as campervan , I 'd say going South to North would be good but not ideal . The South Island is where it 's at and where I 'd recommend a trip to Aotearoa end here ! Campervan relocation though is a bloody great tip as those deals are always going ! I was just about to tweet you to ask if I could pick your brains about Nz for next year but now I 've found this I might not need to ! Good tip about the hostels , as they tend to be the cheapest option . Have you done any couchsurfing in Nz ? And are the Bay of Islands worth visiting ? Julia last blog : Sht My Dad Sayspart 1 @julia Glad you found the post useful ; feel free to email me any Nz questions at matt@backpackingmatt.com . I have n't done any couchsurfing here , but I know plenty of people have and I 've hosted a few . There is a pretty solid network of hosts scattered about the country . The Bay of Islands is fantastic and absolutely worth a visit ; check out Rock the Boat for a really good value overnight cruise that lets you take in the best of the bay in the course of 22 hours . Well worth the money ! Is it best to work in a place a few weeks and then move on ( per orientation session ) or to tour the whole country , pick your town and then work for a longer period of time at a place and possibly get a flat . Have a work visa for a year . What do you think ? Or is is just personal preference . @kathy I think it really is personal preference , however my suggestion would be to spend time touring the entire country ( or one island ) before settling down to find work and a flat . You can get a feel for heaps of different places before ultimately picking the one to spend a bit of time working and living in . Me and my boyfriend are seriously analyzing the option of leaving our current life in Sydney and embrace a journey to New Zealand , and we 've just bumped into this article and I could n't thank you enough . You just made our whole decision so much easier . Thing is , we 've been trying to figure out things financially and we could n't come up with an I ve mainly because we 're not so experience when it comes to backpacking . We are thinking of mainly camping , not so much spending nights in hostels , and to walk or take the bus and hitchhiking , not so much owning or renting a van . So it would be amazing if you could tell me how much would we spend ( estimative ) on those standards if staying for a month . Thank you once again for boosting our confidence on doing this . We sure need life changing experiences , and you made us believe this is going to be just that . @madalena Thanks heaps for the compliments on the post - very glad you 've found it useful and ' good on ya ' for considering a go at New Zealand . If you were camping , doing your own meal and getting around via hitchhiking or bus , I 'd say you could get by on $ 50nzd or less . This would go up depending on what you 'll do by way of activities - ie bungy jumping , skydiving etc ! Shoot any more questions to matt at backpackingmatt dot com . I have nt booked it yet , but it looks like Ill only have 12 days in Nov 2012 in Nz before i have to fly home that s thats after visiting friends in Oz ) , but I was thinking of flying into Auckland ( not stay long there after thankfully reading this blog ) get the train to Wellington . The i was thinking of getting one the flexi passes ( again that i saw on here ) and travel to Abel Tasman , the whole west coast , check out queenstown dunedin and Chistchurch , then fly out . I am so siked to find your website , Matt . A friend and me backpacked through Nz in September 2010 - december 2010 . I am dying to get back . I am frequently checking airplane ticket prices , looking at pictures , and day dreaming about our experience . Unfortunately , I had to come back to the Us to finish my schooling so that I can get a real job , make some real money , but just to head back to Nzed ! For my lengthy stay in Nz , I applied for the Holiday working Scheme . Obviously , that particular visa is offered to each individual once per life time . I am looking to return for work in about a year and I 'm exploring visa possibilities . Any advice ? I may want to see citizenship in the long run . What do you know about this ? Thanks @lacie Thanks heaps for the comment - glad you 've enjoyed it and are itching to get back to Nz . Similar to yourself , I arrived first on a working holiday visa for 12 months . I was able to line up an employer who sponsored me to remain for an extra 12 months and am in the process of renewing that again now . If you 're unable to land a visa before coming back , just enter as a ' tourist ' and hit the ground running looking for work when you arrive . Good luck ! Fantastic tips Matt , a great help ! I am in the process of planning a trip to Nz , i plan on hiring a campervan and traveling from North to South . Possibly leaving this year either November - february or January - april . I have 4000 which will hopefully last me a minimum of 4 months but i would be going over there on a working visa . Do you think this is reasonable ? I will try to do most activities , i.e bungy jumping , kayaking , rock climbing , cycling , walking the list goes on. . ! @brett Glad you enjoyed the tips ! Yes , I think 4000 sounds pretty reasonable yet remember the activities you mentioned add up quickly ! If you 're keen to get work at some point during your visit , I 'd saw you 're sweet as ! Just a bit of expanding the info on number 10 Wwoofing . " a couple of hours work " in exchange for wwoofing will in reality always be at least 4 if not 5. . . As a wwoofing host we love to have others involved in our organic orchard production who are at least interested in organics . If you 're trying to find a place to stay for cheap travel there are a lot of hosts these days who are backpacker hostels or B & B 's happy to have anyone . An I ve is"helpex " which is a similar set up for people not necessarily interested in learning about growing things . On the other hand if you are into learning about organics and helping out those involved in it if you choose profiles of properties that are Biogro certified ( the kiwi organic certification ) then you can be sure you 'll not be ending up with child care cleaning . I am flying to Christchurch in July , after being to Thailand and Oz , and will have 8 days in New Zealand . I was wondering if anyone had any suggestions about things I should do in this time as I know it is n't very long . I was considering using magic buses . Thanks What a brilliant blog post ! I know it sounds cheesy , but it brought tears to my eyes reading it because it made me think of how amazing my working holiday in Nz was back in 2009 and how that experience changed my life . I agree , Nz is truly amazing and I 'm so glad I went ! I hope to go back again someday . Kelly last blog : Beyond London : Bath I 've already asked a similar question and do n't know who else to ask . I am leaving the uk on the 1st may 2013 for 2 months think i am due on 29 June , flights already paid for so that price is not a factor . I have put back 1000 which is just short of 2000 Nz dollars is this enough ? I will be staying in hostels and with friends . I I m to do 1 - 2 activities a week possibly none at all on some weeks . I ask anyone who reads this for advice is this enough cash ? I am a simple bloke just a roof over my head and food occasional activities , plus bus fair . I will n't be traveling a lot as I will be staying wih friends over there . Thank you in advance for a advice , much appriciated @brett I 'd say that $ 2k nzd is just about enough , but it depends entirely on what and how many activities you decide to do and how much of your time is spent in hostels . Just considering basic travel , food and accommodation costs , I 'd guess you could skimp by on $ 50 per day . wow..you have tons of information in this post:)..last time when I went to Nz I did n't do any bungee jumping as my days were short ! I only have 3 weeks from north to south ! and there 's tons of things to do . Now , after seeing your post , i am so interested to go,....it 's an amazing country afterall : ) Edgymix - travel For Fashion last blog : Obsession - extreme Sports Hey Matt ! Do n't forget about Yha as a great place to lay your head . We have hostels all over New Zealand along the backpacker trail ! We also offer 10 % discount on all accommodation for members and a free night when you sign up . Yha New Zealand last blog : From the image archive : Yha Raglan , Solscape you 've a great page here . myself and girlfriend coming to Nz for first time , we 've got over 3 weeks and looking to hostel our way round the South island . Any good blogs , websites for personal itineraries you know about ? 6 Trackbacks For This Post [ . . . ] be hard pressed to find a better spot to break into the......read Full Story at Backpackingmatt : Life 's a Journey - a Budget Travel Blogfor the quickest way to book your Flights To New Zealand deal . [ . . . ] [ . . . ] you 'd like to share with our visitors then contact us.check out Backpackingmatt.com for more backpacking in New Zealand tips.you can follow Matt on twitter too ! Ask our travel experts a questionask any travel question [ . ..]
3  If you read the last post here you might have a slight inkling of how exhausted Felicia and I were upon arriving in the capital city of the Philippines , Manila . Needless to say we had things we intended to see , but no matter how hard we tried to wake up early and wander the streets , or even spend an afternoon checking out the historical parts of town , for the first two days we failed miserably . Essentially we would head out with all intentions of being proper tourists , but within an hour of the city grit and smog we would stop for lunch and soon find ourselves wasting away the afternoon in air conditioned Starbucks just talking about life , goals and all the things that just go unsaid in the day to day trappings of a marriage work as a husband - and - wife team . Felicia and I found that these unplanned " dates " turned into the most amazing part of our time in Manila . It 's been too long since we have just sat and talked without the ever present iphone beeping , or the nagging in the back of our minds that we had work to finish back home . We just hung out - talking about nothing and everything - and it made me realize more than ever why I love this woman so much . Ok , enough being sappy - our 3rd day in Manila we did actually make it to Intramuros ( the historic town which was the seat of Spanish power for hundreds of years ) , and wander the streets and the old churches , snapping a few pictures and sweating in the tropical heat . After a few hours , we headed back cleaned up and spent the final evening in Manila with the people who originally sold us on this trip : Ging + Angelo . They treated us to an amazing dinner and even better company ! Thanks again guys ! Now , I must finish packing my bag , we 've got to leave for a flight in a few minutes which will drop us off in the north . see you all soon .
3  Latest Articles The Perfect Summer Look 2012 The name Whisper Gauze says it all . This soft and silky peasant blouse is as light as a whisper as it gently caresses your form and provides you a flattering silhouette , and when paired with our 4 " chino shorts in sunny yellow , you have a perfect summer outfit that will easily take you from warm beach days to cool bonfire nights . Read More. . . Trekking in the Everest Region We all want a bit of adventure from time to time and trekking can be a great way to spend a week or two . The Everest region is proving to be very popular with trekkers and the majority of people to visit Nepal will make their way to Everest at some point . This is a very unique holiday - everest is the highest mountain in the world and as such has an air of mystery for visitors . It is only in the last 60 years that climbers have been able to conquer this peak and the curious will want to see what it is all about , even if they do not want to attempt the climb . The Everest region is in the eastern part of the country and is a national park and therefore a protected area . The national park was created back in 1976 and covers an area of 1148 square kilometres . No matter which part of the national park you are in you will be able to enjoy some amazing views . While here you can meet some of the friendly Sherpas or pay a visit to one of the Buddhist monasteries . While we know the mountain as ' everest ', locally in Nepal it is known as ' sagarmatha ', which is also the name of the national park in which it sits . A popular part of the park with trekkers is Solukhumbu which can be found in the heart of the national park . While here , trekkers will be able to traverse a wide range of terrain including rocky valleys , meadows and forests . There are plenty of Sherpa villages and glaciers here too so no matter what you want to see you will be able to find it . A trip such as this is considered to be the trip of a lifetime so you need to make the most of every moment . Many trekkers come to the region to reach the Everest base camp , which can be found at a height of around 5463 metres . Those who want to get a good view of the mountain itself will often choose to climb Kala Pattar , which is a small section of Mt Pumori and this will I ve a much clearer view of the mountain that has attracted so much attention over the years . There are plenty of other mountains in the region too which are becoming popular with climbers . Those who are looking for something a little closer to ground level can head for Namche Bazaar , a place which is important in the Khumbu region . This is also perfect for those who are only in the region for a few days and attractions such as the Tengboche monastery offer great views of Everest . Trekking should be done with a properly qualified and experienced guide in order to ensure the safety of all on the trip . There are a number of companies that offer various trekking tours of the region and accommodation may be in a tent or hostel as you travel around . Trekking is also a great way to find out more about the Sherpa culture and a good place to begin from this is Lukla . This destination is just 35 minutes from Kathmandu by plane and the ultimate destination of this particular trek is Tengboche . This walk only takes visitors to a height of 3890 metres and so it is a fairly moderate trek , making it ideal for those who have not tried this before or who are wary of anything more strenuous . From Lukla , visitors go to Phakding on foot , a journey time of around 3 hours when taken leisurely . From here it is just a 5 hour journey on foot to Namche Bazaar , where you can stay for a day while you explore the area . The area has many wild animals , great views and a monastery which is welcoming to visitors . The next day the trek will take you to Khumjung , a walk of just a few hours . Each day sees a different section of the walk and trekkers will only have to be on the move for a few hours each day . This allows the rest of the time for acclimatising and exploring . Other towns which can be visited on this particular trek include Phortse . The return journey takes them all in again and the final day sees a guided tour of Kathmandu , where there are many historical sites and attractions . An itinerary should be provided before you begin so you can plan what you need for the trip but with the help of an experienced guide , you can have the trip of a lifetime to this region . Written by Cathrine This article is written by a professional writer of our femguide - writing - team . Our team consists of professional female writers , who have a lot of experiences in writing about all varieties , facets and colors of life . every article was written with joy .
3  Meet Liz & Stuart ( pictured left ) who are the latest lucky people who got to take Coco , our Social Cabana away for a free adventure . They have been on an adventure to bring Coco from Queenstown all the way up to Auckland . It sounds ( and looks ) like they had heaps of fun , and even met the Prime Minister of New Zealand , John Key ! If you 're keen to check out more photos from their trip you can do so here . Jealous ? Then apply to take Coco away on an adventure yourself . She is Free ! Check out www.jucy4free.co.nz to apply ! Day One - the Wild Wild West ! After 9 months for work & play in Queenstown , the home of extreme sports & ( more importantly ) Fergburger , it was finally time for our date with Coco . We picked her up after saying goodbye to friends in Queenstown , and headed straight for the west coast . Unfortunately the sun decided not to travel with us , so our experience of the west coast was wet and wild , the scenery was still breath taking . We made a quick stop just north of Jackson bay , to add Liz , Stu & Coco to the collection of names on the white stones by the beach . By the evening we had he d Fox Glacier and Franz Joseph and found a great little free campsite to stay for the night . Day Twowhen Lucy Met John ! We arrived in Greymouth mid - morning with the rain still lashing down , so we headed to the Montheith 's brewery to brighten our day ! After some beer tasting and whitebait fritters , we noticed a gathering of important looking people at the brewery door and a few police dotted around . A flash car pulled up and John Key , Prime Minister of New Zealand , strolled through the brewery door ! We managed to chat with Johnny boy and told I m about our adventure with Coco . We introduced John to Lucy and he even asked for a photo with her ! After that it was back on the road again , along the winding roads of the west coast we passed Pancake Rocks and saw some stunning scenery and wildlife . As we were on a tight schedule we did n't have much time to explore Nelson , but by now the sun was out so we quickly hit the beach and took a walk to the centre of New Zealand . That night we camped at a beautiful spot by a river near Rai valley . Day Threesister Act ! We had a early start in order to catch the ferry from Picton to Wellington . We had been advised that we had to be at the terminal 1 hour before departure and we managed to get lost in the small streets of Picton ! Thank god for Navman ! We made it just on time & got Coco secured for the ferry journey over the Cook Straight . On arrival to the North Island we soon realised why they call it " windy Welly " ! We drove around the city and found a car park for Coco to sleep while we explored the bars & cafes in the city centre . There 's a real buzz about the place with funky bars , bohemian cafes and cool graffiti . For a capital city it is very chilled out . We headed to Molly Malone 's where Liz 's sister works & began our night with Guinness & I ve music....the night ended after many tequilas and a pie on the walk home . Day Fourkia Ora Sunshine ! Woken up by Jen 's fabulous hospitality of bacon he s and fresh fruit smoothies , we then went to explore Te Papa Museum . We got lost for hours in the amazing exhibits and I ve zones . There was everything from Maori culture to an earthquake reconstruction , even a giant squid . It 's fun and educational and really worth a look . Although Jen loved Coco so much she wanted her to stay , we said our goodbyes and headed in the direction of Hawkes Bay . The scenery had changed to being less wild and rugged and more rolling hills ( think Hobbiton ) . We were going to stay in Taumata whakatangihanga koauau otamatea \\. . . but Liz got a bit bored of typing it in the Navman so we camped in Waipawa instead and even got offered jobs as fruit pickers ! Day Fivethermal Explorers ! We continued on to the art - deco city of Napier , with the sun shining we walked around admiring the buildings and local artwork . We were lucky enough to catch a free show in the city park with music and Maori dance in aid of mental health awareness . The dance group from nearby Hasting were particularly I ve with dancing and singing and the Haka ! All topped off by a tasty sausage sizzle cooked by the local police ! Coco then took us further inland to wine country . We stopped at a vineyard called Crab Farm , which was a family run winery and restaurant with a hippy tree house . We loved the Pinot Gris and could of stayed there all afternoon . Driving on to Taupo we checked out a few brilliant waterfalls Waipunga and Huka Falls . We then discovered our favourite campsite of the trip Waikite , a nights camping included entry to all the hot pools , a bit pricier than our usual free campsite but well worth it . At 39 degrees it was like stepping into a hot bath , just what we needed after 5 days on the road . Day Sixrock ' n ' Roll ! Up early for a last dip in the hot pools , then we headed to Rotorua known for its strong eggy sulphur smell ( and it did smell! ) . The Saturday farmers markets were on and there were many tasty treats to be had . We hoped to see the mud - pools in the centre of the park but the heavy rain meant they were n't bubbling and it looked more swamp - like . As we did n't get to experience the mud first hand we bought a mud - pack from the gift shop and plastered our faces with it ! More excitement followed with Zorbing being next on our to - do list . Basically Zorbing is rolling down a hill in a I ve inflatable ball . We had mixed reviews on this activity , the first dry zorb we did individually was more painful than fun ( possibly due to the bad weather conditions ) . However on our second zorb we opted for the hydro ride , where warm water is put into the ball . Unlike the first zorb , we were both in the ball together and were not strapped in . This meant we slid about inside as we tumbled and he d down the hill , brilliant fun ! After drying off Coco was waiting to take us to Mt Manganui . We arrived there mid - afternoon just as the sun began to shine . We decided to find a campsite for Coco , an awesome place right on the beach , and went out for a relaxed evening . We ate at a lovely little Middle Eastern restaurant called Hassan Baba . The town was quiet particularly for a Saturday night but we found a bar doing karaoke and got up for a rendition of " coco Cabana" ! ! Day Sevengoodbye Coco ! Sunday morning and our last day with Coco . We stopped in at the Farmers Market in Mt . Maunganui for some supplies and listened to two amazing buskers . We had 7 hours to get to Auckland so decided to see how far we could get up the Coromandel Peninsula . We set our destination to Hot Water Beach and arrived there just on time for high tide . The crowds had already gathered on the beach to dig holes and sit in the warm water in the sand . We shimmied through all the individual spa pools and dug one of our own . Only about a foot under the surface and the water was as hot as a boiling kettle ! We sat on the beach and soaked up some sun then it was back on the road for the final leg of the journey to Auckland . After finally navigating our way around the city we arrived at Jucy Hq to whoops and cheers from the members of staff outside ! A fantastic end to a fantastic journey . We had an amazing week and cannot thank Jucy enough for letting us take Coco for a date , so we wrote this wee poem to sum up our trip and say a big Thank You!! ! ! Thank you Coco it 's been a blast , Our adventures with you have gone by so fast . We 've 'd so much fun along the way , From town to city , from beach to bay . Drank in a vineyard , rolled in a sphere , Met the prime minister , shared a cold beer . From Queenstown to Auckland,we 've travelled so far , And its only been possible coz of our Jucy car . We 're leaving you now , but it will nt be the end , as lucy will always be our friend .
3  It`s just few days , when i came back from Africa . We went to make a first descent od Dyntcha river , what is tributary of Omo river which is one of the biggest river in Africa . In past there was many expedition to Omo river , but no one try to explore region Kaffa and Dyntcha river . When we came to main town of Kaffa region Bonga , we were one of first white poeple what visit this region . We put in to Dyntcha river 2nd week in October and our jurney was plan for 22 days , 120 km of white water in Dyntcha river and 350 of easy big water of Omo river . Our team had six members , me in the kayak and all others in big raft , where was all equipment , food , tents , gear , cameras... . . . Main goal was for sure Dyntcha river . We had just a bit info about river , no real maps , no one can told us what`s goning on down to the river , even local poeple never been down there . ( we are glad that s a kayak they are carring and not Honza ) First two days , was ama zing white water and awesome scenery , midlle of nowhere , dense jungle , lots of monkeys , huge birds , big spiders , nice rapids and on the end of second day waterfalls . After thrid day volume of the river was twice more , gradient was bigger and bigger . Rapids start be ww5 and sometimes more . For me was limit what i can paddle with my kayak full of gear and for guys with big raft was impossible made this rapids . We started portage lots of rapids with a raft . It was so difficult , portage first huge dry bags and after raft . Like this we made three or four days . That`s mean every day we made between 800 to 1500 meters of Dytcha river . After this horrible three days all our dry bags was rip , so everything was wet . Our clouths , gear and food . Next days was river more nice to us , not so steep , but still in the canyon and difficult . After one week we came to confluence with other big river . River start be steep again and during next kilometr there was more then six rapids unrunable . We were short of food and the biggest problem was , no chance to portage . After all that night one friend of mine got insurry and fail unconscious . Same night water rise more the half meter so we have to move higher on the bank . Next day we decide to finish our white water journey and try to save our lives to find a local poeple and at lest of bit civilization . Two of us was going to jungle to find a trek to villige , but we were not sucessfull . Other day was all team felling better , so we left everything on the bank and go with necessery stuff to jungle again . After two days we found a small village , probably 1100 meters higher than was river , exosting and without water . We were save . On the end , i have to say , that was one of the most full action what i ever done . This river is definitlly not good for raft , but for kayaks is one of the biggest challenge what i ever seen . Solid ww5 and more , middle of nowhere , deep canyon , and densy jungle . There is few more rivers around , what should have same charakter like Dyntcha river . I would like to come back and finish our mission , but same way i know it`s going to be hardest trip what i ever made .
3  Trip : At the end of my year off A day of lamb , rain , smells of jasmin , rose and orange blossom , family and friends . Ping - pong , Rummicube , tea , laughs , fire in the fireplace . Happy . In the little house , mum and dad sleep in their own bedroom at the back of the house . My brother in . . . Read more &gt ; " why are you going to Jordan " seemed to be a recurring question when I told people that I was heading here . Clearly none of them had ever been . I now find this question very easy to answer . There is much to fascinate here . From the Roman . . . Read more &gt ; To the East of Aqaba , in the South of Jordan , not far from the Saudi Arabian border is the dessert of Wadi Rum . It is Bedouin and camel land , a real dessert but surprisingly full of life and riches . Sandy but with big rocks , endless horizons , gorges and . . . Read more &gt ; On the outskirts of Sparta is a gem that few people know exist . It is called Mystras . Mystras is a medieval castle , what used to be a very important kingdom in Byzantine times . It is hard to convey how perfect this place is . Nestled against the mountain . . . read more &gt ;
3  When To Go To Iran This is a rough guide to when to travel to this region . Choose a month of travel to see typical temperature and rainfall around the country . The ticks indicate our recommended months to travel . 33.423 50.211 5 39.777229309082 25.064079284668 63.3174781799316 44.0472717285156 Esfahan 32.6727603708005 51.6668128967285 January 9 20 7 February 12 16 8 March 17 20 8 April 22 20 8 May 28 9 10 June 34 1 12 July 37 1 11 August 35 0 11 September 31 0 10 October 25 4 9 November 17 11 8 December 11 22 7 Shiraz 29.6167441958867 52.5554609298706 January 12 77 7 February 14 44 8 March 18 47 8 April 23 34 8 May 30 8 10 June 36 0 12 July 37 2 11 August 36 0 11 September 33 0 11 October 27 4 10 November 20 28 8 December 14 60 7 Tehran 35.7060986239327 51.4357137680054 January 6 37 5 February 8 35 6 March 14 40 6 April 20 33 7 May 26 22 9 June 32 6 11 July 35 5 11 August 34 3 11 September 30 3 10 October 22 17 8 November 15 22 7 December 8 36 5 Yazd 31.8962873341436 54.3611669540405 January 12 11 6 February 15 12 7 March 20 13 7 April 26 9 8 May 32 4 10 June 38 0 11 July 39 0 11 August 38 0 11 September 34 0 10 October 28 1 9 November 20 3 7 December 14 9 6 Select a month of travel : January Jan February Feb March Mar April Apr May May June Jun July Jul August Aug September Sep October Oct November Nov December Dec Climate data provided by Weather2travel.com Considering its location , Iran has unusually diverse weather . The north is very hot in summer , cold in winter , with the bulk of rain coming in spring and late autumn . In the south you 're in the Persian Gulf , so expect pretty warm days even in December and January , followed by a pleasant spring and a very hot summer . If you 're in the mountains , then of course expect mountain conditions - unpredictable , sometimes hot , sometimes cold . Broadly speaking the best times of year to visit are in spring and autumn .
3  Cloud formations that you unlikely to have seen anywhere else in the world . Stupendous views of mountains . Countryside that has not changed in appearance for centuries and , on a clear day , a view of the far off sea and the even further off coast of North Africa . There is a great view of the latter from the public car park in the village of Bubion . On a clear , sunny day , at sunset , you can make out the coastline of Morocco . Take binoculars for an even better view . Ride high into the often snow covered mountains and admire the peaks of El Veleta and Mulhacen , the two highest points on the Spanish mainland . View of Veleta courtesy of Cortijo Opazo Or trot down into the Poqueira gorge and look up to admire the villages of Capileira and Pampaneira . Should you not have experienced these villages , then get off your horse and stride around the shops and bars on offer . In Capileira there is even a leather shop in which you could fit yourself out in western style clothing . By the time you get back on your hired horse , you will feel like you have been riding out for many years . Experienced horsemen and women take you out into the countryside and the riding schools based in La Alpujarra cater for all ages , for the experienced and for those who - like mehave never sat on a horse . I think that once you have ridden in this countryside , you will have caught the bug for all things Equestrian related . Though be sure to admire the Andalusian horses themselves . You are riding some special animals . For a couple of weeks during summer Sanl car is the venue for some fun horse races on the beach . The jockeys take it seriously and the crowds of holidaymakers flock to the coastline to watch the racing . You can bet but , if your horse comes first , you 'll only win sweets . You pay your stake money to children in their little made up bookmaker shops . If your horse wins , go collect your winnings . A lollipop or some candies . Bookmakers are mean the world over ! At least these are winnings you will not blow on the next race . I doubt this event would be allowed to take part on a beach in a more health and safety orientated country . But all is well . The horses race where the sand meets the waves , while the masses on the beach sit or stand behind a rope and cheer on their selection . Across the water from this event is the national park of Do ana . You can take a ferry across to the park . You will not find any horses there but , if you are lucky , you will witness resident and migratory birds and a wide range of four legged animals that I ve in this excellent natural park . There is the Royal Andalusian School of Equestrian Art , a must see building . They put on a regular show in the indoor arena where some of the finest Andalusian horses show off their skills and those of the horsemen and women of the region . The grounds of the school are also glorious and worth wandering around . You will see horses strutting their stuff in the paddock and you can get so close to the animals and appreciate all the more the beauty of these beasts . Those who truly appreciate the magnificence of horses will love to spend a few hours here . Imagine you are on holiday with your pony loving son or daughter . Well he or she will become instant fans of Spanish horses . And they are sure to want to buy some merchandise from the shop and take it back to the holiday accommodation you have rented in or near Jerez de la Frontera . There are plenty of top quality places to choose from . Royal Andalusian Equestrian School , Jerez The Sandeman bodega backs on to the grounds of the school so you can taste sherry , brandy or port after you have been to the horse show . I was unaware that the Sandeman company was actually founded by a Scotsman . George Sandeman gave birth to the company in 1790 . The two businesses meet as , before the spellbinding show at the Royal Equestrian School , you have the option to taste a sample of locally produced sherry . But do n't be tempted to have too many glasses . The horses should only have four legs . If you are seeing more than that , then you have clearly been on too many bodega tours in Jerez de la Frontera . If going riding then you should be sober . Although parking up at a bar or two is considered a traditional way of taking a break from riding . I have seen many a horse parked outside a bar , tied up just like in the western films . Of course for those who would rather be the passenger than the jockey , numerous Spanish cities offer you the chance to jump in the back of a horse and carriage and be driven sedately around the streets of wonderful locations such as C rdoba , or to see the sights in picture perfect places such as the aforementioned Jerez de la Frontera . This way you get close to the horse , but you do n't have the responsibility of making sure it goes in the intended direction . How often have you driven around your holiday home destination in Spain and had only a fleeting look at some memorable sight out of car the window ? Or got frustrated at trying to find somewhere to park in a busy town or city ? I heartily recommend you see the best points of a Spanish destination not from the top of a bus , but from a horse drawn carriage . And for those of you who are willing to go that extra mile , so to speak , then there are several horse riding schools and tour companies offering you the chance to ride around and across this vast , varied and magnificent country . So what is stopping you ? Come on holiday to Spain and saddle up . Posted by vernon Vernon is a London born , former Fleet Street journalist and , for 25 years , a television producer for Itv , Bbc , Sky & C4 . In 2002 he began travelling the length and breadth of Spain . In 2005 he settled south of Granada , and is co - author of a guidebook to the 100 best tapas bars in the city and province of granada .
3  Visit to Dprk August 23 , 2012 I spent an interesting I ve days in North Korea last week . My colleagues at the British Embassy in Pyongyang arranged a varied programme for me , including meetings with North Korean officials , Un and aid agency representatives and Pyongyang - based diplomats from other countries . In addition I was able to accompany our Ambassador , Karen Wolstenholme , on a couple of trips outside the capital . Mansudae in Pyongyang This was my second visit , having spent three days in Pyongyang in November 2009 . But it 's not easy to make comparisons . Pyongyang in November was cold , grey and pretty bleak . Not surprisingly in August it 's green and less austere . There 's been quite a bit of construction , notably the big Mansudae residential complex by the river . I was told this will house 3000 families . Superficially the buildings appear better than standard Pyongyang apartment blocks - which look grim . It would be interesting to see inside them . There 's more traffic on the streets , including many more imported vehicles but in absolute terms traffic is light . Outside Pyongyang even main roads are incredibly quiet . In meetings , there was a strong and consistent focus on the priority being given to economic development . I was told that North Korea is interested in studying other countries ' experience . My trip coincided with Jang Sung Taek 's talks with Chinese leaders in Beijing which seem to have concentrated on developing special economic zones along the Chinese border . Trips to Myohyang and Pyeongseong , about 100 and 50 miles north of Pyongyang enabled us to see for ourselves some of the damage caused by the recent floods . A lot of bridges had been brought down or were unsafe . In other places , river banks had been he d away . To our eyes crop damage seemed relatively limited but Un agencies should be able to offer a thorough assessment . At Myohyang we viewed some of the gifts given to Korean leaders over the years . The guide proudly showed us presents from Honecker , Ceausescu , Gierek , Emperor Bokassa , Mobutu , Gadhafi , Mubarak. . . In Pyeongseong we visited an orphanage supported by the British Embassy . Dedicated staff there care for about 120 4 - 5 year olds . Dprk Orphanage It was interesting to see how Pyeongseong residents are making use of small plots of land to grow vegetables for themselves . They are even putting their roofs to good use , training squash to grow over them . The North Korean Olympic Team returned to Pyongyang while I was there and people turned out in large numbers , some doubtless willingly , to greet them . As in South Korea , people have taken a lot of pride in their athletes ' success in London . A North Korean swimmer will be taking part for the first time in the Paralympic Games , which start next week . I 'm proud that our Embassy in Pyongyang enabled them to travel to a qualifying event in Berlin a few weeks ago . Any trip to the Dprk is at once interesting but sad . Seoul , with its noise , colour and energy , may be just 120 miles away but it feels like another world . However , I was quite encouraged by the discussions on economic development . All of us living and working on the Korean Peninsula want to see peace and prosperity and I hope there will be more to see when I next visit . [ . . . ] at the lack of access granted by North Korean partners and control over aid distribution . Unlike the Uk , whose Ambassador to the Rok just returned from a 5 - day stint to visit his colleagues in Pyon.. . , the Belgian government does not have a formal Ambassador To North Korea ^zz++++=EXTRAWORD And Protects Its ;  .]
